 
 
City of New York 
OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER 
Scott M. Stringer 
COMPTROLLER 
MANAGEMENT AUDIT 
Marjorie Landa  
Deputy Comptroller for Audit  
Audit Report on the Department of 
Parks and Recreation's Trees & 
Sidewalks Program  
MH18-058A 
June 20, 2019 
http://comptroller.nyc.gov  


 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................................................................ 1 
Audit Findings and Conclusion .................................................................................... 1 
Audit Recommendations.............................................................................................. 2 
Agency Response ....................................................................................................... 2 
AUDIT REPORT ......................................................................................... 3 
Background ................................................................................................................. 3 
Objective ...................................................................................................................... 4 
Scope and Methodology Statement ............................................................................. 4 
Discussion of Audit Results with DPR ......................................................................... 5 
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .................................................... 6 
Average Sidewalk Inspection Response Times Exceeded 30 Days for Fiscal 
Years 2016 and 2017 .................................................................................................. 7 
Recommendations ................................................................................................... 9 
Not All Inspection Data Was Entered into ForMS 2.0 ................................................ 10 
Recommendations .................................................................................................  12 
Service Requests Incorrectly Labeled as Duplicate ................................................... 13 
Recommendations .................................................................................................  13 
DPR Has No Time Frame or Goal for Completing Sidewalk Repairs Once an 
Inspection Is Completed ............................................................................................ 14 
Recommendation ................................................................................................... 16 
DETAILED SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY ............................................. 17 
ADDENDUM 
 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 1 
THE CITY OF NEW YORK 
OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER 
MANAGEMENT AUDIT 
 
Audit Report on the Department of Parks and 
Recreation's Trees & Sidewalks Program 
MH18-058A 
 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
We conducted this audit to determine whether the New York City (City) Department of Parks and 
Recreation (DPR) has adequate controls over its Trees & Sidewalks Program to ensure sidewalks 
are repaired in a timely manner. 
DPR’s mission is to plan, maintain, and care for the more than 30,000- acre municipal parks 
system that encompasses over 1,900 parks, 1,000 playgrounds, 650,000 street trees, and 2 
million park trees.  In connection with its responsibility for street trees, DPR manages the Trees 
& Sidewalks Program, initiated in March 2005, which seeks to repair sidewalks damaged by the 
roots of City trees i n front of owner occupied one- , two-, and three -family homes (property tax 
class 1) not used for commercial purposes.  The mission of the program is to preserve the integrity 
of the trees, address any potential tree -related safety concerns, and reduce li ability of the City  
and owners of adjacent private property. 
According to DPR’s procedures, the sidewalk repair process is initiated when an individual makes 
a request by either calling 3-1-1, entering information into the 3-1-1 website, or entering a request 
into DPR’s website.  All requests received under the Trees & Sidewalks Program for a sidewalk 
inspection should be entered into DPR’s Forestry Management System (ForMS) 2.0.  DPR’s staff 
should review the service request to ensure that the address is eligible for the Trees & Sidewalks 
Program and check ForMS 2.0 to determine whether it contains a record of any other complaints 
at that address.  According to DPR’s internal standard, known as the Service Level Agreement 
(SLA), an inspector should evaluate each eligible site within 30 days and assign a priority rating.  
For each sidewalk that receives  a priority rating above DPR ’s threshold, DPR is supposed to 
create a repair design and subsequently generate a corresponding work order.  Once DPR has a 
budget and a contract to com plete sidewalk repairs, its procedures call for it to identify those 
sidewalks with work orders within a geographic area to be repaired by the contractor.   
Audit Findings and Conclusion 
This audit found that DPR had inadequate controls over its Trees & Sidewalks Program to ensure 
that sidewalks are repaired in a timely manner.  DPR has a weekly Trees and Sidewalks Indicator 
Report that contains various activity and performance measures; however, it does not track the 
timeliness with which the sidewalks are inspected or repaired.   Our review of 11,392 service 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 2 
requests and 9,118 associated addresses found that homeowners had to wait an average of 101 
days after submitting a request to have their sidewalks inspected, 71 days longer than the 30 day 
internal DPR SLA.  Additionally, our review of 1,069 repaired sidewalks  found that the average 
time from inspection to repair was 419 days, with the longest time for a repair taking over 11 years.  
DPR’s data reveals that 95 percent of the sidewalk repairs were completed within 2 years and 98 
percent were completed within 2.5 years.   According to DPR officials, the Trees & Sidewalks 
Program does not have a target time frame for how long it should take for a sidewalk scoring 
above the priority rating threshold to be repaired following an inspection. 
In addition, we found that no data was recorded within the inspection fields in ForMS 2.0 for 1,527 
service requests (associated with 1,509 unique addresses).  According to DPR, no inspection 
record was generated for these service requests.  For many of them, the only indication that an 
inspection may have been performed is in the service request Notes to Customer field; however, 
there are no supporting details  (e.g., inspection identification number, date, sidewalk rating, or 
inspector’s name) to provide a clear indication that an inspection was actually performed.   This 
includes 143 service requests  (associated with 141 unique addresses ), where the Notes to 
Customer field either contained no information at all or contained information that did not pertain 
to the complaint.   
We also found that DPR did not consistently label service requests as duplicates when it received 
multiple service requests for the same address; we reviewed 6,446 service requests, associated 
with 2,706 unique addresses, each of which had two or more service requests recorded in ForMS 
2.0, and found that 1,494 service requests were not identified as duplicates by DPR.   Of these, 
187 addresses received two or more inspections.   Additionally, of the 2,741 service requests  in 
ForMS 2.0 that we reviewed and that were marked as duplicates, we were unable to find additional 
service requests for 72 of them. 
Audit Recommendations 
Based on our findings, we make seven recommendations, including the following: 
• DPR should incorporate additional timeliness metrics for the Trees & Sidewalks Program, 
including for inspections, into its internal management reports.  
• DPR should include a new step when completing inspections to record all relevant 
information in the appropriate inspection fields and to identify any address that is ineligible 
for the Trees & Sidewalks Program with the reason why the site is ineligible. 
• DPR should ensure that the Forestry staff performing Trees & Sidewalks inspections are 
fully trained on the entire process, including identifying duplicate service requests.  
• DPR should establish a reasonable SLA target to complete sidewalk repairs after an 
inspection is performed and results in the site’ s receiving a priority rating above the 
threshold.  
Agency Response 
In its response, DPR agreed with five recommendations, did not directly address the 
recommendation that DPR include a new step when completing inspections, and stated that it will 
take under consideration the recommendation that DPR establish a reasonable SLA target for 
completing sidewalk repairs once program eligibility has been determined.    
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 3 
AUDIT REPORT 
Background 
The mission of DPR is to plan, maintain, and care for the more than 30,000-acre municipal parks 
system that encompasses over 1,900 parks, 1,000 playgrounds, 650,000 street trees , and 2 
million park trees .  The agency’s mission also includes  providing recreational and educational 
opportunities for New Yorkers of all ages. 
In connection with its responsibility for street trees, DPR manages t he Trees & Sidewalks 
Program, initiated in March 2005, which seeks to repair sidewalks damaged by the roots of City 
trees in front of owner occupied one-, two-, and three-family homes (property tax class 1) not 
used for commercial purposes.1  According to DPR, the mission of the program is to preserve the 
integrity of the trees , address the potential tree- related safety concerns , and reduce the 
associated potential liability of the City and owners of adjacent private property. 
The sidewalk repair process is initiated when an individual makes a request by either calling 3-1-
1, entering information into the 3 -1-1 website, or entering a request into DPR ’s website.   All 
requests received under the Trees & Sidewalks Program for a sidewalk inspection should be 
entered into DPR’s ForMS 2.0, which has a two-way integration with 3-1-1.   
ForMS 2.0 contains information on each service request, including any inspection and work order 
related to  the requested sidewalk repair .2  The Central Forestry GIS and Analytics  team is 
responsible for maintaining ForMS.  Inspectors should document the inspections using the ForMS 
mobile system on their tablets, and when they return to the office they are supposed to sync their 
tablets with ForMS 2.0 to update the information.  
When DPR receives a complaint (service request) about a sidewalk reportedly damaged by a City 
tree, DPR staff should review the service request to ensure that the address is eligible for the 
Trees & Sidewalks Program and check ForMS 2.0 to determine whether  it contains a record of  
any other complaints at that address.   Subsequent complaints for the same address should be 
marked as duplicate.  A sidewalk that was inspected in the preceding three years should not be 
inspected again.  This time frame was established by DPR based on its determination that it takes 
approximately three years before the growth of nearby tree roots significantly changes the 
condition of a sidewalk.  
According to DPR’s procedures, after the abovementioned screening takes place, the agency will 
send an inspector to evaluate each eligible site and assign a priority rating .  Inspections 
determining sidewalk damage are  rated based on a priority rating  of up to 100 points, with a 
priority rating of 100 representing the most severely damaged sidewalk.  The parameters used to 
determine the priority rating include the following: location;3 clearance;4 vertical lift of sidewalk ; 
number of damaged flagstones;5 tree conditions; and total number of trees at the address.   
                                                      
1 Mixed use properties that have three or fewer units where at least one unit is used as a commercial space are not covered by DPR’s 
Trees & Sidewalks Program. 
2 DPR upgraded to ForMS 2.0 in March 2015 from ForMS Classic, which was used during the preceding 10 years.   
3 The location is rated based on the volume of pedestrian traffic; the inspector considers the number of parks, playgrounds, schools, 
places of worship, businesses, hospitals, and subway stations nearby. 
4 Clearance is defined as the widt h of walkable space with less than a half inch of vertical lift and/or cracks less than a half inch in 
diameter. 
5 The number of damaged flagstones is determined by the inspector counting the number of sidewalk flagstones which have sustained 
damage as a result of tree roots. 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 4 
For each sidewalk that receives a priority rating at or above 80, the DPR priority rating threshold 
as of August 14, 2017, DPR is supposed to create a repair design and subsequently generate a 
corresponding work order.6  Once DPR has a budget and a contract to complete sidewalk repairs, 
its procedures call for it to identify those sidewalks with work orders within a geographic area to 
be repaired by the contractor .  From May 2016 through May 2019, the contractor employed by 
DPR for sidewalk repairs was Hudson Hills Contracting, LLC.  According to DPR, the list of repairs 
is updated on an ongoing basis so that there is always a pool of designs and work orders ready 
to give the contractor at the time the contract is awarded. 
The number of repairs to be completed depends on repair costs, which vary because some sites 
need a repair due to damage associated with only one tree while other sites need a repair of 
damage associated with multiple trees.  DPR can estimate the cost of repairs based on the design 
created for each individual site.   DPR’s budget for both Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017 was 
approximately $6 million per year. 
According to DPR’s ForMS 2.0 Standard Operating Procedures  (SOPs), DPR has e stablished 
SLAs, which are internal DPR standards intended to help it “manage the public’s expectations by 
setting standards for how long it will take the Agency to resolve the condition.”  According to DPR’s 
SOPs, m ost SLAs have two components , an Inspection component and a Work Completion 
component.  For the Trees & Sidewalks Program, the Inspection component sets the time frame 
to inspect the sidewalk at 30 days after the service request is entered into the ForMS 2.0 system.  
However, currently the SLAs establish no time frame for t he Work Completion component after 
the sidewalk has been inspected and found to meet or exceed the priority rating threshold for 
repair.  Trees & Sidewalks work orders are scheduled according to priority rating and contract 
capacity. 
According to the New York City Open Data website,  7,557 of the 96,512 complaints that DPR 
received through 3-1-1 in Fiscal Year 2017 were for sidewalk repairs.  That figure represents a 9 
percent decrease from the 8,291 3-1-1 sidewalk repair complaints received in Fiscal Year 2016. 
Objective 
The objective of this audit was to determine whether DPR has adequate controls over its Trees & 
Sidewalks Program to ensure sidewalks are repaired in a timely manner.  
Scope and Methodology Statement 
We conducted this performance audit in accordance with generally accepted government auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient, 
appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our 
audit objective.  We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our 
findings and conclusions based on our audit objective.  This audit was conducted in accordance 
with the audit responsibili ties of the City Comptroller as set forth in Chapter 5, §93, of the New 
York City Charter. 
                                                      
6 The priority rating threshold is fluid and dependent on the pool of priority ratings, funding, and contracting capacity at any given 
time.  Parks reevaluates this threshold periodically as these conditions change. 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 5 
The scope of this audit was July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017.  Please refer to the Detailed 
Scope and Methodology at the end of this report for the specific procedures and tests that were 
conducted. 
Discussion of Audit Results with DPR 
The matters covered in this report were discussed with DPR officials during and at the conclusion 
of this audit.  A preliminary draft report was sent to DPR and discussed at an exit conference held 
on April 30, 2019 .  On May 17, 2019, we submitted a draft report to DPR  with a request for 
comments.  We received a written response from DPR on June 3, 2019.  
In its response, DPR agreed with five of the seven recommendations, did not directly address the 
recommendation that DPR include a new step when completing inspections, and stated that it will 
take under consideration the recomm endation that DPR establish a reasonable SLA target to 
complete sidewalk repairs after an inspection is performed .  However, DPR officials disagreed 
with the audit’s overall finding, stating,  
we take issue with the Report’s primary finding that Parks ‘had inadequate controls 
over its Trees & Sidewalks Program to ensure sidewalks are repaired in a timely 
manner.’  This finding represents a fundamental misconception regarding the 
mission of the program, which strives to preserve public trees through pri oritizing 
repairs based on relative liability, not the age of the service requests.   
We disagree with DPR’s characterization that a timeliness goal is in conflict with the program ’s 
overall mission.  The longer a sidewalk remains unrepaired, the greater the risk of liability at that 
site.  As confirmed to us by DPR officials during the audit, addressing potential tree-related safety 
concerns and reducing the associated potential liability of the City and owners of adjacent private 
property are also integral aspects of the mission of the Trees & Sidewalks Program .  
Consequently, we maintain that the adoption of timeliness goals would further the overall mission 
of the program.   
Moreover, we note that DPR’s response points to a lack of resources as being at the heart of its 
procedures for addressing complaints.  DPR expressly states,  “[t]here will always be more sites 
on a waiting list than there are funds available to repair given current funding levels.”  Thus, rather 
than reflecting a “fundamental misconception” of the DPR program’s mission, the audit reveals 
operational weaknesses in the agency ’s procedures for fulfilling that mission  and recommends 
measures to  address them, almost all of which DPR agreed with and reports that it has begun to 
implement.   
The full text of DPR’s response is included as an addendum to this report. 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 6 
FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
We found that DPR had inadequate controls over its Trees &  Sidewalks Program to ensure 
sidewalks are repaired in a timely manner .  While DPR has a weekly Trees and Sidewalks 
Indicator Report that contains various activity and performance measures , it does not track the 
timeliness with which the sidewalks are inspected or repaired.7  Our review found:  
• That DPR repaired 1,069 sidewalks during Fiscal Year 2017 and that the average time 
from inspection to repair was 419 days,  with the longest time for a repair taking over 11 
years.  According to DPR’s data, 95 percent of the sidewalk repairs were completed within 
2 years and 98 percent were completed within 2.5 years. 
• 449 unique addresses with work orders for sidewalk repairs with priority ratings above the 
current threshold that were open as of December 31, 2017.   These 449 work orders had 
been outstanding, on average, for 523 days.   
In addition,  although the Trees & Sidewalks Program has written policies and procedures 
governing how DPR foresters are to record sidewalk inspections, we found that those procedures 
were not followed in a consistent manner.   
During Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017, DPR received 16,558 service requests pertaining to 13,373 
unique addresses, from which we determined:  
• 3,653 addresses (27 percent) were inspected within 30 days , as required by DPR ’s 
internal SLA.   
• Homeowners had to wait an average of 101 days after submitting a request to have their 
sidewalks inspected.   
In addition, we found no data recorded in the inspection fields in ForMS 2.0 for 1,527 service 
requests (associated with 1,509 unique addresses).  According to DPR, no data was recorded in 
these fields because no inspection record had been generated.   For many of them, the only 
indication that an inspection may have been performed is  in the service request Notes to 
Customer field; however, there are no supporting details (e.g., inspection identification number, 
date, sidewalk rating, or inspector’s name) to provide a clear indication that an inspection was 
actually performed.  The abovementioned totals include 143 service requests  (associated with 
141 unique addresses), where the Notes to Customer field either contained no information at all 
or contained no information that pertained to the complaint to indicate that inspections were 
performed or that the complaint DPR received was adequately addressed. 
We also found that DPR did not consistently label service requests as duplicates when it received 
multiple service requests for an address; we identified 1,494 (23 percent) out of 6,446  service 
requests (associated with 2,706 unique addresses) that were not marked as duplicate.  Of these, 
187 addresses received two or more inspections.   Additionally, of the 2,741 service requests in 
ForMS 2.0 that we reviewed and that were marked as duplicates, we were unable to find additional 
service requests for 72 of them.  
                                                      
7 DPR’s weekly Trees and Sidewalks Indicator Report tracks, among other things, the number of service requests received and the 
number outstanding, the number of inspections completed, the number of designs created that week, the design goal for the year, the 
number of sidewalks repaired, and the repair goal for the year. 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 7 
Average Sidewalk Inspection Response Times Exceeded 30 
Days for Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017 
DPR did not consistently meet its internal SLA goal of performing sidewalk inspections within 30 
days.  The Trees & Sidewalk Program has a performance goal to inspect a sidewalk for damage 
within 30 days of the service request’s being entered in ForMS 2.0.   
However, DPR consistently failed to meet this goal.  Our review of service request data provided 
by DPR from ForMS 2.0 disclosed that the agency received 16,558 service requests during Fiscal 
Years 2016 and 2017 associated with 13,373 unique addresses.  Our analysis of that data 
revealed that only 3,653 unique addresses (27 percent) received an inspection within the 30-day 
threshold.  A breakdown of our analysis is shown in Table I below. 
Table I 
Analysis of Inspection Data 
Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017 
  Fiscal Year 2016 Fiscal Year 2017 Fiscal Years 2016  
and 2017 
  Service 
Requests 
Unique 
Addresses 
Service 
Requests 
Unique 
Addresses 
Service 
Requests 
Unique 
Addresses 
Data in Inspection Fields 
Inspected within 30 days 2,229 1,744 2,237 1,909 4,466 3,653 
Inspected after 30 days 3,715 2,744 3,211 2,721 6,926 5,465 
Total with Data in 
Inspection Fields  5,944 4,488 5,448 4,630 11,392 9,118 
No Data in Inspection Fields* 
Total without Data in 
Inspection Fields  3,500 2,735 1,666 1,520 5,166 4,255 
Totals 9,444 7,223 7,114 6,150 16,558 13,373 
*  The information in the “No Data in Inspection Fields” is discussed in the following section of the report. 
For the 9,118 unique addresses that contained data in the inspection fields within ForMS 2.0 and 
were inspected during Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017, we found that homeowners waited 101 days 
on average for their sidewalks to be inspected—71 days longer than the 30-day benchmark.  The 
longest time a homeowner waited for an inspection was 863 days, or slightly more than 2.36 years 
(service request date July 22, 2015, and inspected on December 1, 2017).  A time frequency 
breakdown is shown in Table II below. 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 8 
Table II 
Frequency Distribution of Addresses 
Inspected during 
Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017 
Length of Time to Inspect the Address from the 
Service Request Date 
Number of 
Unique 
Addresses 
Percent 
0 - 30 days (0 months - 1 month) 3,653 27% 
31 - 60 days (1 month - 2 months) 1,212 9% 
61 - 90 days (2 months - 3 months) 776 6% 
91 - 120 days (3 months - 4 months) 727 5% 
121 - 150 days (4 months - 5 months) 671 5% 
151 - 180 days (5 months - 6 months) 479 4% 
181 - 240 days (6 months - 8 months) 636 5% 
241 - 300 days (8 months - 10 months) 268 2% 
301 - 360 days (10 months - 12 months) 158 1% 
361 - 540 days (12 months - 18 months) 353 3% 
541 - 720 days (18 months - 24 months) 183 1% 
> 721 days (over 24 months) 2 0% 
Total Number of Inspected Addresses 9,118 68% 
Total Number of Addresses without Data in 
Inspection Fields 4,255 32% 
Totals 13,373 100% 
 
According to a senior DPR official, due to limited staff resources, sidewalk inspections are a lower 
priority for the Borough Offices than other risk-related inspections— such as trees that are down, 
split, leaning, uprooted, or have hanging tree limb(s)—that  potentially pose a more immediate risk 
to pedestrians.   
In addition, while DPR has a Trees and Sidewalks Indicator Report with weekly totals by borough 
for new service requests received,  outstanding service requests, and inspections done,  it does 
not measure the length of time before a service request is inspected or the number of service 
requests outstanding for more than 30 days. 
By failing to conduct timely inspections , DPR increases the risk that repairs would be excluded 
from the current cycle of sidewalk repairs, which would prolong the time it would take to correct 
potentially dangerous conditions.   These unrepaired sidewalks could potentially represent a 
tripping hazard and a potential liability to the City.   Our review of the 39 highest paid sidewalk -
related claims against the City that were settled in Fiscal Year 2017 showed that 6 claims totaling 
$1.3 million were settled with individuals who were injured as a result of sidewalk defects caused 
by the roots of City trees.  
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 9 
Recommendations 
1. DPR should incorporate additional timeliness metrics for the Trees & Sidewalks 
Program, including for inspections, into its internal management reports. 
DPR Response:  DPR agreed with this recommendation and stated, “[b]eginning 
in 2018, the Trees & Sidewalks Program began tracking the team’s performance 
in meeting our internal 30 business day goal for responding to service requests 
and will consider formalizing this tracking by including it within internal indicator 
reports.  Parks met this goal 98%  of the time from January 2018 to the present 
and over 99% of the time from January 2019 to the present.” 
Auditor Comment:  We are pleased that DPR has agreed to implement this 
recommendation; however, it is unclear as to when DPR adopted a business day 
measure for this goal.  DPR presented no evidence to indicate that a business 
day measure was in place during the scope of this audit.  The first time that DPR 
stated that its 30 -day goal was measured in business days  was at the exit 
conference.  Furthermor e, none of DPR ’s documented internal policies and 
procedures (Trees & Sidewalks Program Manual or the ForMS 2.0 SOPs) refer to 
business days, nor was DPR able to provide any evidence that it tracks any of its 
metrics using business days.  Regarding the percentages referred to above, we 
have no basis upon which to verify their accuracy because this information had 
not been shared with us prior to this response and DPR does not provide any 
documentation indicating the source for these figures or how these percentages 
were calculated. 
2. DPR should ensure that every address with one or more open service request(s) 
is inspected within 30 days in accordance with its internal performance goal. 
DPR Response:  DPR agreed with this recommendation and stated, “[e]nsuring 
that every address with one or more open service request(s) is inspected within 
30 business days is a primary focus of Parks ’ Trees & Sidewalks Program staff.  
We are proud that since January 2018, 98% of all service requests were inspected 
with[in] 30 business days, and since January 2019, more than 99% of all service 
requests were similarly inspected.  Further, while not currently included within 
Parks’ internal indicator report, each week, Parks ’ Trees & Sidewalks Program 
staff use a custom repor t to monitor pending service requests, as well as to 
prioritize those approaching 30 business days without an inspection.  Please note 
that completing inspections with[in] 30 business days is an internal goal, which 
may be affected by matters outside of Parks’ control, including storms and other 
events that may require reallocation of staff resources to meet more immediate 
health and safety needs.” 
Auditor Comment:  We are pleased that DPR decided to implement our 
recommendation and track how many service requests were inspected within the 
new goal of 30 business days.  As stated above, however, DPR did not provide 
the source for its figures so we are unable to confirm their accuracy.   
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 10 
Not All Inspection Data Was Entered into ForMS 2.0  
The inspection fiel ds in ForMS 2.0 should contain specific information about the completed 
inspection, such as the inspection identification number, the inspection address, the sidewalk 
rating total determined during inspection, the inspection date, and the name of the DPR s taff 
member who conducted the inspection.   However, our review of the service requests revealed 
that some had no data recorded within the inspection fields.   As a result, it was difficult, and in 
some cases impossible, to determine whether an inspection had been conducted or if it might 
have been improperly overlooked.   Comptroller’s Directive # 1, Standard 4.4, Information and 
Communications states,  
Management requires both operational and financial data to determine whet her 
they are meeting their agencies' strategic and annual performance plans as well 
as achieving their goals for the effective and efficient use of resources.   
Of the 16,558 service requests  generated during our review period, we identified 5,166 (31 
percent), associated with 4,255 unique addresses that had no data recorded within the inspection 
fields in ForMS 2.0.  According to DPR, an inspection record is generated in response to a Trees 
& Sidewalks service request only to record a sidewalk rati ng on a site that is eligible for the 
program.  We determined that 3,639 of those service requests , associated with 2,746 unique 
addresses, would not have needed to be inspected for one of the following reasons  that DPR 
provided: (1) an incorrect or invalid address was provided to DPR (such as when only an 
intersection is provided); (2) the property at the address is not a one-  to three-unit residential 
property, known as property tax class 1 , which may be determined through a database check 
without an inspec tion; (3) the property (apart from its tax classification) contains a place of 
business; or (4) the service request had been identified as a duplicate of an address that had 
already been inspected within the preceding three years.  
Even though we found no inspection record had been generated for the remaining 1,527 service 
requests, we found comments in the Notes to Customer  field within the service request data for 
1,384 of those cases , indicating an inspection may have been completed.  Thus, f or the 1,527 
service requests , associated with 1,509 unique addresses, we attempted to determine the 
possible outcome of the DPR inspection or review by evaluating the information provided in DPR’s 
Notes to C ustomer contained in the service request  fields of ForMS 2.0 for each one of the 
complaints.  The results of our evaluations are compiled in Table III below.   
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 11 
Table III 
Analysis of Service Requests without 
Data in Inspection Fields – Unclear 
Whether Inspection Was Completed 
Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017 
 Fiscal Year 2016 Fiscal Year 2017 Fiscal Years 2016  
and 2017 
Auditor-
Determined 
Outcome 
Service 
Requests 
Unique 
Addresses 
Service 
Requests 
Unique 
Addresses 
Service 
Requests 
Unique 
Addresses 
No record in 
Notes to 
Customer field of 
an Inspection 
103 102 40 39 143 141 
Inspected-
Appears to be 
Eligible for 
Program 
322 319 153 153 475 472 
Inspected-
Ineligible for 
Program 
566 553 343 343 909 896 
Total 991 974 536 535 1,527 1,509 
 
The Notes to Customer  and other service request fields were not a complete substitute for 
information that should be contained in the inspection fields because they did not consistently 
contain all of the information that would be included in an inspection record, such as the inspection 
identification number, the date of inspection, the sidewalk rating total, and the inspector’s name.  
Thus, the records were missing key information that c ould have been  used for operational 
decision making.  Moreover, 143 service requests were blank or lacked sufficient information in 
the Notes to Customer  field to indicate whether the condition was inspected and whether the 
complaint was addressed in any way.  Our review revealed the following: 
• 143 service requests, associated with 141 unique addresses, were not associated with 
any inspection record and contained insufficient information to indicate why they were 
closed, because the Notes to C ustomer fields were also blank, or did not address the 
complaint (e.g., such as when the complaint was about tree roots lifting the sidewalk, and 
the Notes to Customer states that the tree will be pruned during the city block pruning 
cycle).  Therefore, in the absence of any relevant information , we could not tell how or 
whether DPR addressed these service requests/complaints.  In this group of 143 service 
requests, 2 reported conditions appeared to have remained uninspected and unaddressed 
for 914 days (about 2.5 years), in that the requests, received on July 1, 2015, remained 
uninspected as of December 31, 2017.  These cases involved the longest period in which 
any service request in this group remained unaddressed.  However, according to DPR, all 
of the service requests in this group were closed, signifying that they were either inspected 
or did not need to be inspected for a specific reason.   As noted above, however, DPR’s 
records of these service requests lack the information that would show either the results 
of the inspection or the reasons the conditions did not need to be inspected. 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 12 
• 909 service requests, associated with 896 unique addresses, which based on the Notes 
to Customer fields, appear to have been inspected by DPR and found ineligible for the 
Trees & Sidewalks Program, in part because: the sidewalk had already been repaired or 
was under construction; the sidewalks had insignificant damage (less than ½” of lift caused 
by a City-owned tree); or damage to the sidewalk was not caused by a City-owned tree. 
• 475 service requests, associated with 472 unique addresses, which based on the Notes 
to Customer fields, appear to have been inspected.  DPR officials explained that after the 
inspection was completed, DPR staff may have failed to link the inspection data to the 
service request when the service request was closed,  which would have resulted in the 
absence of that data from the inspection fields in the data provided to us.  
As stated above, according to DPR, some sidewalks when inspected were found ineligible for the 
Trees & Sidewalk Program, as in the 909 cases in which sidewalks had been repaired, were under 
construction, where the damage was insignificant, or the damage was not caused by a City-owned 
tree.  In such cases, according to DPR, inspection records were not generated in ForMS 2.0.  
However, in the absence of  an inspection record, DPR cannot readily ascertain the date of the 
observation or the identity of the inspector who made it.  
Moreover, because DPR is not creating an inspection record for all inspections, the agency may 
not be properly accounting for the work time that its staff utilizes in visiting the locations.  Without 
a consistent method for recording inspection results, it  is not clear how DPR can  assess the 
average amount of time reasonably required to conduct an inspection from the receipt of the 
service request.  The absence of such information hinders the agency’s ability to properly manage 
its fin ite staffing resources , measure the time spent addressing these service requests , and 
reliably determine appropriate performance targets for addressing them. 
In addition, and most importantly, DPR does not know the degree to which missing inspection 
data is due to errors relating to data entry versus properties being ineligible for the program. 
Recommendations 
3. DPR should ensure that all inspection data is correctly linking to the associated 
service request. 
DPR Response:  DPR agreed with this recommendation and stated, “[t]he Trees 
& Sidewalks Program now performs regular quality control checks for data quality 
on a bi-weekly basis.  Revamped class and field trainings, in addition to regular 
check-ins with field staff, have also ensured that procedures are enforced.  The 
data quality discrepancies cited in the Report have no operational impact on the 
prioritization or assignment of priority repairs to contracts, the program’s primary 
goal.  Since Parks tracks records based on addresses in ForMS 2.0, even if an 
inspection was not linked to a service request number, it would still be connected 
to the relevant address.” 
4. DPR should include a new step when completing inspections to record all relevant 
information in the appropriate inspection fields and to identify any address that is 
ineligible for the Trees & Sidewalks Program  with the reason why the site is 
ineligible. 
DPR Response:  “As of March 2018, Parks adopted a standardized Notes to 
Customer field to be entered into the service request to ensure that information 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 13 
on ineligible sites are recorded and communicated in a clear and consistent 
manner.” 
Auditor Comment:  DPR did not directly address this recommendation, instead 
stating that it has standardized the Notes to Customer  field within the service 
request data.  However, standardizing the Notes to Customer  field does not 
ensure that all relevant information is recorded in the appropriate inspection fields.  
We urge DPR to implement this recommendation so that it can better determine 
the number of sites inspected, as well as account for the work time that its staff 
utilizes in visiting locations to assess whether the trees and sidewalks in question 
are eligible for the program.   
Service Requests Incorrectly Labeled as Duplicate  
Anomalies were found in data provided from the ForMS 2.0 Trees &  Sidewalks database , 
specifically relating to addresses with multiple service requests that were not marked as duplicate 
as required.   
DPR’s ForMS 2.0 SOPs states that service requests for conditions that have previously been 
reported should be marked as duplicates in ForMS 2.0, because it is inefficient to send staff out 
to a site more than once to inspect the same condition.  Based on those procedures, DPR staff 
must check each service request  using the “Duplicate Handler for SR#” within ForMS 2.0.  The 
search will return all service requests both open and closed on the same street segment as the 
original service request.  If a similar service request type is found at the same location, then DPR 
staff must mark the service request as duplicate. 
Our review of 6,446 service requests, associated with 2,706 unique addresses, each of which 
had two or more service requests recorded in ForMS 2.0, revealed that 1,494 service requests 
(23 percent) were not identified as duplicates by DPR.   
In addition, we reviewed 2,741 service requests DPR marked as “duplicate” in Fiscal Years 2016 
and 2017 and were unable to find an original service request in the data for 72 of them.  Erroneous 
or unverifiable “duplicate” service request  classifications increase the risk that potentially 
dangerous conditions associated with these addresses may not be inspected.   
These issues may have occurred because DPR staff did not follow the SOPs that DPR developed 
to facilitate checking for and managing duplicates when reviewing service requests.  As a result, 
DPR incurs an increased risk that staff will conduct multiple inspections of the same address and 
may leave other addresses uninspected, an inefficient use of what DPR has already indicated to 
be scarce resources.  Of the 947 unique addresses associated with the above-mentioned 1,493 
service requests that should have been but were not marked as duplicates, DPR staff inspected 
187 (19.7 percent) of them more than once, including 8  addresses that were each inspected 3  
times. 
Recommendations  
5. DPR should ensure that the Forestry staff performing Trees & Sidewalks 
inspections are fully trained on the entire process , including identifying duplicate 
service requests. 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 14 
DPR Response:  DPR agreed with this recommendation and stated, “Parks fully 
trains its staff performing Tree & Sidewalks inspections on the entire process, 
including identifying duplicate service requests.  Procedures are more 
standardized than they were during the early part of the audit period and 
additional trainings have been implemented including revised classroom 
trainings, extended shadowing periods, and in -field reviews by the program 
manager.  An automated report is also used to facilitate identifying duplicate 
information.” 
6. DPR should ensure that service request s identified as duplicates are properly 
linked to the original service re quest and ensure that the address has been 
inspected. 
DPR Response:  DPR agreed with this recommendation and stated, “Parks has 
adopted standardized procedures to ensure that this takes place.  Duplicate 
handling was a new procedure implemented with the transition to the new ForMS 
2.0 database.  An automated report is also used to facilitate duplicate information.  
Please note that when the response to the original service request did not contain 
the standardized Notes to Customer described above, the new service request 
will intentionally not be linked as a duplicate so as to ensure that customers 
receive the most appropriate response.” 
DPR Has No Time Frame or Goal for Completing Sidewalk 
Repairs Once an Inspection Is Completed 
DPR does not have a target time frame for how long it should take for a sidewalk scoring above 
the priority rating threshold to be repaired following an inspection.  DPR’s ForMS 2.0 SOPs states 
the SLA for Work Completion is “0” days for the Trees & Sidewalks Program, and DPR officials 
confirmed that there is no target goal for how long it takes to complete a sidewalk repair. 
According to Comptroller’s Directive #1, section 5.2,  
Management . . . should be comparing actual functional or activity level 
performance data to planned or expected results, analyzing significant variances 
and introducing corrective action as appropriate.  Key indicator tracking and  self-
assessment checklists are important tools in measuring the control posture of 
various functional activities. 
As stated earlier, for sidewalks with a priority rating at or above the threshold, DPR is supposed 
to create a repair design and generate a corresponding work order to be assigned to a contractor 
for the repair.  DPR stated that it assigns work orders  to contracts based on priority rating and 
contract capacity.  Based on work order data from ForMS 2.0 provided by DPR, 1,069 sidewalks 
were repaired during Fiscal Year 2017 (July 1, 2016 through June 30, 2017).8  Our review found 
that the average length of time it took to repair a sidewalk following the inspection was 419 days 
(1.15 years).  However, we note that more than half—579—of the service requests associated 
with the 1,069 work orders were received prior to DPR ’s transition to ForMS 2.0.  DPR did not 
upload the service request data into ForMS 2.0.  Consequently, we were not able to measure the 
                                                      
8 The 1,069 work orders analyzed were extracted from 1,080 work orders in ForMS 2.0 which contained an Actual Finish Date during 
Fiscal Year 2017.  We excluded 8 work orders because they w ere missing an inspection date, and 3 work orders that included an 
inspection date after the Actual Finish Date. 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 15 
amount of time between the receipt of the service request to the completion of the repair  and 
instead measured the time between the inspection (which was in ForMS 2.0) and the Actual Finish 
Date.   
A time frequency breakdown is shown in Table IV. 
Table IV  
Work Orders Completed during 
Fiscal Year 2017 
Length of Time to Repair from Inspection 
Date 
Number of 
Addresses 
Repaired 
Percent 
0 - 180 Days (0 months - 6 months) 94 8.8% 
181 - 360 Days (6 months - 12 months) 375 35.1% 
361 - 540 Days (12 months - 18 months) 391 36.6% 
541 - 720 Days (18 months - 24 months) 151 14.1% 
721 - 900 Days (24 months - 30 months) 34 3.2% 
901 - 1,080 Days (30 months - 36 months) 9 0.8% 
1,081 - 1,460 Days (3 years to 4 years) 8 0.7% 
1,461 - 2,190 Days (4 years to 6 years) 2 0.2% 
2,191 - 2,920 Days (6 years to 8 years) 3 0.3% 
> 2,921 Days (over 8 years) 2 0.2% 
Total 1,069 100.0% 
 
The longest time for a repair was 4,172 days (11.43 years) after the inspection date .  At  15 
addresses it took DPR and its contractors longer than 3 years to make repairs, and repairs at 2 
of those addresses took over 8 years from the inspection date to the repair completion date .  
Overall, 95 percent of the repairs were completed within 2 years and 98 percent were completed 
within 2.5 years. 
In addition, according to data provided by DPR from ForMS 2.0, 449 work orders for sites scoring 
at or above the priority rating threshold of 80, were open as of December 31, 2017.  These 449 
work orders had been outstanding for 523 days (1.43 years) on average—the oldest work order 
had been outstanding for 2,166 days (5.93 years). 
DPR officials explained that they have not set a target time frame for repairing a sidewalk because 
such a time frame would be dependent on the continuous existence of active contracts operating 
at a consistent performance level, while the number of active contracts in place has varied widely 
over the past several years.  For example, during this period, the Trees & Sidewalks Program was 
operating with a single contractor, reflecting significantly reduced contracting capacity.   
Notwithstanding that explanation, however, unrepaired sidewalks represent tripping hazards and 
a potential liability to the City.  Therefore, the longer a sidewalk remains unrepaired, the greater 
the risk of liability at that site .  In the absence of a target time frame for such repairs the City 
cannot properly address and mitigate the risks posed by unrepaired sidewalks or balance those 
risks against the costs it would incur to meet its target.    
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 16 
Recommendation 
7. DPR should establish a reasonable SLA target to complete sidewalk repairs after 
an inspection is performed and results in the site’s receiving a priority rating above 
the threshold. 
DPR Response:  “While we understand the desire to see repairs completed in a 
timely manner and can consider this recommendation, we maintain that the goal 
of the Trees & Sidewalks Program is to preserve trees in the course of sidewalk 
repair, while addressing sidewalk defects that may present risk to the public and 
liability to the City and property owners.  There will always be more sites on a 
waiting list than there are funds available to repair given current funding levels.  
The best way to prioritize repairs with these limited resources remains prioritizing 
the highest rated sites first, regardless of their age.  As new requests are always 
coming in and we are required to repair those sites that have the most severe 
damage first, we cannot give a guaranteed timeframe for a given repair.  Parks 
allows for the possibility that continued tree root growth can increase the severity 
of sidewalk damage over time by allowing for a re-inspection of sites with a rating 
more than three years old, upon request.  Additionally, there are other programs 
through which the City bears the cost to repair sidewalks damaged by City trees, 
including DOT ’s sidewalk repair program and through claims submitted by 
property owners to the Office of the Comptroller for repairs made privately.  
We note that the Report finds that during the audit period, 95% of repairs were 
completed within two years and 98% of repairs were completed within two and a 
half years – even though the Trees & Sidewalks Program was operating with only 
a single contractor, being directed to mobilize around the five boroughs of New 
York City.  Parks maintains that our existing priori ty rating system remains the 
appropriate means for achieving the mission of the Trees & Sidewalks Program.” 
Auditor Comment:  We continue to maintain that establishing a reasonable SLA 
target for repair ing sidewalks it deems eligible for repair would enable DPR to 
better assess the degree to which such repairs are completed in a timely manner 
so as to reduce the City ’s risk of liability at those sites .  We therefore urge DPR 
to implement this recommendation.  
 
 
  
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 17 
DETAILED SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY 
We conducted this performance audit in accordance with generally accepted government auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain sufficient, 
appropriate evidence to provide a reasonable basis for our findings and conclusions based on our 
audit objective.  We believe that the evidence obtained provides a reasonable basis for our 
findings and conclusions based on our audit objective.  This audit was conducted in accordance 
with the audit responsibilities of the Cit y Comptroller as set forth in Chapter 5, §93, of the New 
York City Charter. 
The audit scope was from July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017. 
To obtain an understanding of the policies, procedures, and regulations concerning the Trees &  
Sidewalks Program, we reviewed and used the following as criteria: 
• Information from DPR’s website regarding the Trees & Sidewalks Program; 
• Trees & Sidewalks Program Manual; 
• Forestry Management System 2.0 SOPs, 2/27/2015 and updated 10/3/2017;  
• Trees & Sidewalks Rating Methodology - Feb. 2017; 
• Trees and Sidewalks Indicator Reports;  
• ForMS 2.0 data dictionary; 
• List of Resolution Actions; 
• NYC Open Data website of 311 complaints made to DPR during Fiscal Years 2016 and 
2017;  
• NYC Comptroller’s Directive #1, Principles of Internal Control; and 
• NYC Mayor’s Management Report, Fiscal Year 2018. 
To obtain an understanding of DPR ’s policies and procedures , we interviewed the Assistant 
Commissioner of Forestry, Horticulture & Natural Resources ; Chief of Forestry & Horticulture ; 
Senior Forester for Trees & Sidewalks ; Director of Tree Preservation ; Director of Brooklyn 
Forestry; Director of Queens Forestry ; Deputy Director Queens Forestry ; Trees & Sidewalks 
Program Manager; Director of GIS & Analytics; and the Senior Forester for ForMS. 
On March 29, 2018, we received two Access data tables containing data from DPR downloaded 
from ForMS 2.0.   The first data table included data related to all service requests created or 
maintained in ForMS 2.0 from March 4, 2015, to June 30, 2017, including all related inspections 
and work orders.  The second data table contained data from ForMS 2.0 related to all work orders 
that were active, pending, or closed during Fiscal Year 2017, including all related service requests 
and inspections. 
To calculate the average sidewalk inspection response time, our review was limited to service 
requests created during Fiscal Years 2016 and 2017 (July 1, 2015 through June 30, 2017).   For 
addresses with multiple service requests, we took the earliest service request date and computed 
the length of time to the earliest inspection date (for addresses that had more than one inspection 
date).  We determined how many unique addresses and related service requests were inspected 
within 30 days, and the number of unique addresses and related service requests that took longer 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 18 
than 30 days to be inspected.   We then calculated the average length of time for all the unique 
addresses, as well as the longest length of time between a service request date and the inspection 
date. 
Since DPR’s policy is to only inspect unique addresses once every three years, addresses that 
had multiple service requests in the period we reviewed should only have had one inspection.   
However, we had found 187 unique addresses that had two or three inspections, therefore, we 
calculated the length of time from the earliest service request to the earliest inspection.  If this 
calculation between the earliest service request and inspect ion was completed within 30 days, 
we counted all service requests associated with the address within the category of being 
completed within 30 days.   
To determine how many service requests did not have any inspection data recorded in the 
inspection fields we sorted and filtered out all service requests containing data in the various 
inspections fields.   For the remaining service request s that did not contain any data in the 
inspection fields we compared the addresses in these records to determine whether any of them 
matched any other service request for the scope period and classified them as duplicate.   We 
then reviewed the remaining service requests and sorted them into the following groups : No 
record of Inspection—Blank/Unaddressed ; Inspected and eligible for the sidewalk repair program; 
Inspected – Ineligible for the program; and Not Inspected – Ineligible for the program, based on 
the text in the Notes to Customer field.  We then determined how many unique addresses were 
associated with each group of these service requests.  
In addition, to determine how many service requests were not correctly identified as duplicate by 
DPR, we used excel to sort the unique addresses by their Community Boards  and then by 
address.  We used the “Conditional Formatting” command to highlight identical addresses.  We 
then manually checked for any additional service requests for the same address that excel could 
not identify because of data inconsistencies  (e.g., if one service request was Avenue, and the 
second was Ave, if the street was misspelled, or if there was a dash in address [12-34 vs. 1234]).  
We then determined how many service requests should have been marked as duplicate for a 
unique address and were not.  Finally, we determined how many unique addresses had multiple 
inspections completed.   
To determine the number of service requests that were labeled as a duplicate, but for which we 
were unable to identify an original service request, we extracted all service requests that were 
labeled by DPR staff as duplicate in the DuplicateStatus  column during Fiscal Years 2016 and 
2017.  We then sorted these records by address and compared them to the addresses in the full 
data set provided by DPR.   For the remaining service requests where we did not find any 
additional service requests with a matching address, we manually compared them to ForMS 2.0 
and ForMS Classic  to identify if another service request (s) existed for that address with an 
alternate spelling or formatting variation. 
To determine the length of time it took DPR to complete sidewalk repairs from the time it was 
inspected, we used the second Access data table containing the data on work orders.  For all 
work orders that have a sidewalk repair, we calculated how long it took from the inspection date 
to the date of repair.   We excluded eight work orders that were repaired but didn’ t have an 
inspection date and three work orders which had an inspection date after it was repaired.  For the 
remaining work orders we broke down the length of time between inspection and repair into six  
month categories.  We also determined the average length of time and the longest time DPR took 
to repair a sidewalk from the time it was inspected.   (M ore than half of the service requests 
associated with the 1,069 work orders were received prior to DPR migrating to ForMS 2.0 ; thus 
DPR did not upload these service requests into ForMS 2.0.  Consequently, for these requests we 
Office of New York City Comptroller Scott M. Stringer MH18-058A 19 
were not able to measure the  amount of time between the receipt of the service request to the 
completion of the repair.) 
In addition to the work orders that had sidewalk repairs, the second data table also contained data 
on work orders that were still pending.   We excluded all work orders that were cancelled, since 
these sidewalks may have already been repaired by the homeowner or the Department of 
Transportation, and there is no longer a defect in the sidewalk.   For the remaining work orders, 
we calculated the time from the InspectionDate until December 31, 2017, and then broke down 
the work orders by the SWRatingTotal.  We then calculated the total number of work orders that 
had a priority rating above the threshold,  as well as the average length of time and the longest 
length of time that a sidewalk had not been repaired following an inspection. 
To determine how many claims related to sidewalk damage were settled by the City of New York, 
we reviewed Sidewalk Claims settled during Fiscal Year 2017.   We determined the number of  
claims settled and the total amount of those settlements, limiting our review to all settlements that 
were $100,000 or more.   
 
 
Jennifer Greenfeld 
Assistant Commissioner 
Forestry, Horticulture &  
Natural Resources 
T 212.360.1488 E jennifer.greenfeld@parks.nyc.gov City of New York 
Parks & Recreation 
Arsenal North 
New York, NY 10029 
www.nyc.gov/parks 
 
Re: Audit Report on the Department of Parks & Recreation’s Trees & Sidewalks 
Program; MH18-058A 
Dear Deputy Comptroller Landa: 
This letter addresses the findings and recommendations contained in the New York City 
Comptroller's ("Comptroller") Draft Audit Report ("Report"), dated May 17, 2019, on the above 
subject matter.   
While we appreciate your interest in the Trees & Sidewalks Program, we take issue with the 
Report’s primary finding that Parks “had inadequate controls over its Trees & Sidewalks Program 
to ensure sidewalks are repaired in a timely manner.”  This finding represents a fundamental 
misconception regarding the mission of the program, which strives to preserve public trees 
through prioritizing repairs based on relative liability, not the age of the service requests.  Sites are 
prioritized for repair based on the severity of damage, amount of pedestrian traffic, and the 
availability of funding and contracts.  Those sites that receive the higher priority rating are those 
that contain the most significant tripping hazards, and therefore pose greater risk to the public and 
expose the City to greater potential losses through litigation.  Sites are repaired in order of priority, 
with those receiving the highest priority rating being repaired first. 
Further, the scope of the audit was July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017.  Near the end of this 
period, Parks began implementing programmatic changes and process improvements that have 
addressed many of the findings contained in this Report.  For example, in July 2017, Parks began 
to address Trees & Sidewalks service requests centrally instead of by the borough forestry offices.  
This addressed a large backlog of Trees & Sidewalks service requests for inspections.  As a result, 
from January 2018 through the present, we are proud to report that 98% of all Trees & Sidewalks 
service requests were inspected within 30 business days, and from January 2019 to the present, 
over 99% of all Trees & Sidewalks service requests were inspected within 30 business days. 
The audit period also began three months after Parks manually transitioned its data for the Trees 
& Sidewalks Program from ForMS Classic to ForMS 2.0.  The conversion of all data into the new 
database required all staff to adjust their day-to-day data handling and inspection procedures.  As 
this was a major transition resulting in policy and procedural changes, there were data quality 
effects during the audit period, none of which had any operational impacts on prioritization or 
assignment of priority repairs to contracts. 
Additionally, Parks’ contracting capacity for the Trees & Sidewalks Program during nearly the 
entire audit period was greatly reduced to a single contractor.  Parks was able to successfully 
continue this program with a single contractor, performing repairs in all five boroughs.  Parks also 
successfully managed the Trees & Sidewalks Program in many areas that are not discussed in this 
Report, including contract management, supervision/design consultant oversight, the quality of 
contractual work, and the consistency and quality of post-repair inspections. 
This Report includes seven recommendations to Parks ("DPR"): 
June 3, 2019 
Marjorie Landa 
Deputy Comptroller for Audit 
City of New York Office of the Comptroller 
1 Centre Street, Room 1100 
New York, NY 10007 
ADDENDUM Page 1 of 3
Recommendation 1 - DPR should incorporate additional timeliness metrics for the 
Trees & Sidewalks Program, including for inspections, into its internal management 
reports. 
Beginning in 2018, the Trees & Sidewalks Program began tracking the team’s performance in 
meeting our internal 30 business day goal for responding to service requests and will consider 
formalizing this tracking by including it within internal indicator reports.  Parks met this goal 98% 
of the time from January 2018 to the present and over 99% of the time from January 2019 to the 
present.    
Recommendation 2 – DPR should ensure that every address with one or more open 
service request(s) is inspected within 30 days in accordance with its internal 
performance goal. 
Ensuring that every address with one or more open service request(s) is inspected within 30 
business days is a primary focus of Parks’ Trees & Sidewalks Program staff.  We are proud that 
since January 2018, 98% of all service requests were inspected with 30 business days, and since 
January 2019, more than 99% of all service requests were similarly inspected.  Further, while not 
currently included within Parks’ internal indicator report, each week, Parks’ Trees & Sidewalks 
Program staff use a custom report to monitor pending service requests, as well as to prioritize 
those approaching 30 business days without an inspection.  Please note that completing 
inspections with 30 business days is an internal goal, which may be affected by matters outside of 
Parks’ control, including storms and other events that may require reallocation of staff resources 
to meet more immediate health and safety needs.  
Recommendation 3 – DPR should ensure that all inspection data is correctly linking 
to the associated service request. 
The Trees & Sidewalks Program now performs regular quality control checks for data quality on a 
bi-weekly basis.  Revamped class and field trainings, in addition to regular check-ins with field 
staff, have also ensured that procedures are enforced.  The data quality discrepancies cited in the 
Report have no operational impact on the prioritization or assignment of priority repairs to 
contracts, the program’s primary goal.  Since Parks tracks records based on addresses in ForMS 
2.0, even if an inspection was not linked to a service request number, it would still be connected to 
the relevant address.  
Recommendation 4 – DPR should include a new step when completing inspections 
to record all relevant information in the appropriate inspection fields and to identify 
any address that is ineligible for the Trees & Sidewalks Program with the reason why 
the site is ineligible. 
As of March 2018, Parks adopted a standardized Notes to Customer field to be entered into the 
service request to ensure that information on ineligible sites are recorded and communicated in a 
clear and consistent manner. 
Recommendation 5 – DPR should ensure that Forestry staff performing Trees & 
Sidewalks inspections are fully trained on the entire process, including identifying 
duplicate service requests. 
Parks fully trains its staff performing Tree & Sidewalks inspections on the entire process, including 
identifying duplicate service requests.  Procedures are more standardized than they were during 
the early part of the audit period and additional trainings have been implemented including 
revised classroom trainings, extended shadowing periods, and in-field reviews by the program 
manager.  An automated report is also used to facilitate identifying duplicate information.   
ADDENDUM Page 2 of 3
Recommendation 6 – DPR should ensure that service requests identified as 
duplicates are properly linked to the original service request and ensure that the 
address has been inspected. 
Parks has adopted standardized procedures to ensure that this takes place.  Duplicate handling 
was a new procedure implemented with the transition to the new ForMS 2.0 database.  An 
automated report is also used to facilitate duplicate information. Please note that when the 
response to the original service request did not contain the standardized Notes to Customer 
described above, the new service request will intentionally not be linked as a duplicate so as to 
ensure that customers receive the most appropriate response.  
Recommendation 7 – DPR should establish a reasonable SLA target to complete 
sidewalk repairs after an inspection is performed and results in the site’s receiving a 
priority rating above the threshold. 
While we understand the desire to see repairs completed in a timely manner and can consider this 
recommendation, we maintain that the goal of the Trees & Sidewalks Program is to preserve trees 
in the course of sidewalk repair, while addressing sidewalk defects that may present risk to the 
public and liability to the City and property owners.  There will always be more sites on a waiting 
list than there are funds available to repair given current funding levels.  The best way to prioritize 
repairs with these limited resources remains prioritizing the highest rated sites first, regardless of 
their age.  As new requests are always coming in and we are required to repair those sites that have 
the most severe damage first, we cannot give a guaranteed timeframe for a given repair.  Parks 
allows for the possibility that continued tree root growth can increase the severity of sidewalk 
damage over time by allowing for a re-inspection of sites with a rating more than three years old, 
upon request.  Additionally, there are other programs through which the City bears the cost to 
repair sidewalks damaged by City trees, including DOT’s sidewalk repair program and through 
claims submitted by property owners to the Office of the Comptroller for repairs made privately. 
We note that the Report finds that during the audit period, 95% of repairs were completed within 
two years and 98% of repairs were completed within two and a half years – even though the Trees 
& Sidewalks Program was operating with only a single contractor, being directed to mobilize 
around the five boroughs of New York City.  Parks maintains that our existing priority rating 
system remains the appropriate means for achieving the mission of the Trees & Sidewalks 
Program. 
Finally, Parks wishes to thank you and your audit staff for the time and effort devoted to 
completing this report. 
Sincerely, 
Jennifer Greenfeld 
 ADDENDUM Page 3 of 3