
  Audit Report On The Department Of Parks And Recreation’s Trees & Sidewalks Program - Office of the New York City Comptroller
Mark Levine
Microsoft Internet Explorer is no longer a supported browser on NYC Comptroller’s website.
		Please use Microsoft Edge, Google Chrome, Apple Safari or Mozilla Firefox.
Español
繁體中文
简体中文
Русский
한 국 어
Kreyòl ayisyen
Italiano
Join Mailing List
About
Leadership Team
Learn about the Comptroller’s senior staff members
Contact Our Office
No matter what your question is, the Office is here to help
Duties Of The Comptroller
View Powers and Duties under New York State Law
Mission Statement and Office Overview
Learn about each of the different bureaus’ functions
About
                    Mark Levine                    
The Comptroller’s biography and policies
Services
Services
Audit
Certificate of Residence
City Retirees’ Services
File a Claim
FOIL Requests
Judgment and Claim Settlement Payment Inquiry
Meeting Disclosure Reporting
Report a Language Access Problem
Wage Schedules
Workers Compensation
Resources / Topics
Accessibility
Confronting the Climate Crisis
Employer Wall of Shame (2025)
Equity
Federal Funding Support
Immigrant Workers Guide
Infrastructure
LGBTQIA+ Guide
Protecting NYC
NYC Audit Committee
Workers’ Rights
Data Dashboards
Agency Staffing
Asylum Seeker Services
Checkbook NYC
Claims Filed & Settled
Climate
Creative Economy
Department of Correction
Employer Violations
Government Performance
Homelessness
For Businesses
Doing Business with the Comptroller
NYC Comptroller's Office Vendor Forms W-9 and W-8
Prequalified CPA
Retainage and Franchise
RFPs & Solicitations
Tax Reporting Guidelines
Zero-Interest Loans
For City Agencies
Comptroller's Directives and Memoranda
Contract Registration
Fiscal Year-End Closing Instructions 2026
Prequalified CPA
Tax Reporting Guidelines
Financial Matters
Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR)
Boardroom Accountability Project
Checkbook NYC 
Economically Targeted Investments
NYC Bonds
NYC Component Units Financial Statements
NYC Fiduciary Funds Financial Statements
Pension / Investment Management
Reports
Recent
Annual
View All (
                    2175                    )
Sep 2, 2026
 Recent Trends in Personal Income & Wage Inequality 
Aug 24, 2026
 Comment Letter to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission Re: Removal... 
Aug 20, 2026
 The Right-of-Play: Expanding “School Streets” Access in NYC 
Aug 18, 2026
 Review of the New York City Department of Veterans’ Services’... 
Aug 17, 2026
 Joint Letter to Paramount Skydance Corporation Re: DEI Rollbacks 
Aug 17, 2026
 Joint Letter to Nexstar Media Group Re: DEI Rollbacks 
Apr 16, 2024
 Annual Claims Report 
Oct 31, 2025
 Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) 
Jan 30, 2024
 Annual Summary Contracts Report for the City of New York 
Dec 27, 2023
 New York City Retirement Systems 2023 Shareowner Initiatives 
Nov 24, 2025
 Popular Annual Financial Report (PAFR) 
Feb 2, 2024
 Report to the Mayor and City Council on City Comptroller... 
Newsroom
Press Releases & Statements
 Comptroller Levine Unveils 2026 Edition of the Employer Violations Dashboard Tracking Companies... 
Sep 4, 2026
 Ahead of School Year Kick Off, Comptroller Levine Finds Just 48 NYC... 
Aug 20, 2026
 After VetConnectNYC Review Finds Persistent Failures, Comptroller Levine Calls to Overhaul Key... 
Aug 18, 2026
 Top Financial Officers from Six Jurisdictions Raise Concerns Over Media Companies Retreat... 
Aug 17, 2026
 NYC Comptroller Levine and Pension Trustees Announce Robust 13% Pension Aggregate Return... 
Aug 12, 2026
 Comptroller Review Urges Stronger Support for ATWORK to Expand Employment Opportunities for... 
Jul 29, 2026
Testimonies
Newsletters
Videos
Events
Tweets
Press Kit
About
Services
Reports
Newsroom
Employment
Newsletter
search
Top Searches
A-M
Certificate of 
Residence
Contact
 Our Office
Directives
 and Memoranda
Employment
 Opportunities
File a 
Claim
Freedom Of Information Law (
FOIL
) Requests
Jobs
Municipal 
Bonds
N-Z
Notice of 
Claim
NYC 
Bonds
Prevailing Wage
Tax-exempt 
Bonds
Unclaimed
 Prevailing Wage
Vendor Forms 
W-9
 and 
W-8
Reports
 / 
Audit Report On The Department Of Parks And Recreation’s Trees & Sidewalks Program
ARCHIVE
 from Comptroller Stringer's Administration			
Audit & Investigation
Parks And Recreation, Department Of
Audit Report On The Department Of Parks And Recreation’s Trees & Sidewalks Program
																			June 20, 2019									
																			| MH18-058A																	
Table of Contents
Executive Summary
We conducted this audit to determine whether the New York City (City) Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR) has adequate controls over its Trees & Sidewalks Program to ensure sidewalks are repaired in a timely manner.
DPR’s mission is to plan, maintain, and care for the more than 30,000-acre municipal parks system that encompasses over 1,900 parks, 1,000 playgrounds, 650,000 street trees, and 2 million park trees.  In connection with its responsibility for street trees, DPR manages the Trees & Sidewalks Program, initiated in March 2005, which seeks to repair sidewalks damaged by the roots of City trees in front of owner occupied one-, two-, and three-family homes (property tax class 1) not used for commercial purposes.  The mission of the program is to preserve the integrity of the trees, address any potential tree-related safety concerns, and reduce liability of the City and owners of adjacent private property.
According to DPR’s procedures, the sidewalk repair process is initiated when an individual makes a request by either calling 3-1-1, entering information into the 3-1-1 website, or entering a request into DPR’s website.  All requests received under the Trees & Sidewalks Program for a sidewalk inspection should be entered into DPR’s Forestry Management System (ForMS) 2.0.  DPR’s staff should review the service request to ensure that the address is eligible for the Trees & Sidewalks Program and check ForMS 2.0 to determine whether it contains a record of any other complaints at that address.  According to DPR’s internal standard, known as the Service Level Agreement (SLA), an inspector should evaluate each eligible site within 30 days and assign a priority rating.  For each sidewalk that receives a priority rating above DPR’s threshold, DPR is supposed to create a repair design and subsequently generate a corresponding work order.  Once DPR has a budget and a contract to complete sidewalk repairs, its procedures call for it to identify those sidewalks with work orders within a geographic area to be repaired by the contractor.
Audit Findings and Conclusions
This audit found that DPR had inadequate controls over its Trees & Sidewalks Program to ensure that sidewalks are repaired in a timely manner.  DPR has a weekly Trees and Sidewalks Indicator Report that contains various activity and performance measures; however, it does not track the timeliness with which the sidewalks are inspected or repaired.  Our review of 11,392 service requests and 9,118 associated addresses found that homeowners had to wait an average of 101 days after submitting a request to have their sidewalks inspected, 71 days longer than the 30 day internal DPR SLA.  Additionally, our review of 1,069 repaired sidewalks found that the average time from inspection to repair was 419 days, with the longest time for a repair taking over 11 years.  DPR’s data reveals that 95 percent of the sidewalk repairs were completed within 2 years and 98 percent were completed within 2.5 years.  According to DPR officials, the Trees & Sidewalks Program does not have a target time frame for how long it should take for a sidewalk scoring above the priority rating threshold to be repaired following an inspection.
In addition, we found that no data was recorded within the inspection fields in ForMS 2.0 for 1,527 service requests (associated with 1,509 unique addresses).  According to DPR, no inspection record was generated for these service requests.  For many of them, the only indication that an inspection may have been performed is in the service request Notes to Customer field; however, there are no supporting details (e.g., inspection identification number, date, sidewalk rating, or inspector’s name) to provide a clear indication that an inspection was actually performed.  This includes 143 service requests (associated with 141 unique addresses), where the Notes to Customer field either contained no information at all or contained information that did not pertain to the complaint.
We also found that DPR did not consistently label service requests as duplicates when it received multiple service requests for the same address; we reviewed 6,446 service requests, associated with 2,706 unique addresses, each of which had two or more service requests recorded in ForMS 2.0, and found that 1,494 service requests were not identified as duplicates by DPR.  Of these, 187 addresses received two or more inspections.  Additionally, of the 2,741 service requests in ForMS 2.0 that we reviewed and that were marked as duplicates, we were unable to find additional service requests for 72 of them.
Audit Recommendations
Based on our findings, we make seven recommendations, including the following:
DPR should incorporate additional timeliness metrics for the Trees & Sidewalks Program, including for inspections, into its internal management reports.
DPR should include a new step when completing inspections to record all relevant information in the appropriate inspection fields and to identify any address that is ineligible for the Trees & Sidewalks Program with the reason why the site is ineligible.
DPR should ensure that the Forestry staff performing Trees & Sidewalks inspections are fully trained on the entire process, including identifying duplicate service requests.
DPR should establish a reasonable SLA target to complete sidewalk repairs after an inspection is performed and results in the site’s receiving a priority rating above the threshold.
Agency Response
In its response, DPR agreed with five recommendations, did not directly address the recommendation that DPR include a new step when completing inspections, and stated that it will take under consideration the recommendation that DPR establish a reasonable SLA target for completing sidewalk repairs once program eligibility has been determined.
Download The Report
Audit Report On The Department Of Parks And Recreation’s Trees & Sidewalks Program
Table of Contents
The Office
									One Centre Street
									New York, NY 10007
									(212) 669-3916
Suspect Wasteful Spending?
									Call (212) NO-WASTE
Navigate
About
Services
Reports
Newsroom
Employment
Contact Us
Follow Us
Join Mailing List
Get the latest news in your inbox.
Sign Up
Sign Up
© 2026 Copyright, Office of the New York City Comptroller
Sitemap
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Language Disclaimer
Text Size
Accessibility
Text Size
To change the text size you can use your web browser's settings. Most browsers include functionality to let you increase or decrease the text on a web page. For example, to increase text size using:
Chrome
 In the menu to the right of the address bar, select and set Zoom level. Menu > Zoom > +
Firefox
 In the menu to the right of the address bar, select and set Zoom level. Menu > Zoom > +
Safari
 In the View menu, select Zoom In. View > Zoom In. Macintosh Shortcut: Command+
Microsoft Edge
 In the menu to the right of the address bar, select and set Zoom level. Menu > Zoom > +
No Web Browser Endorsement. Common browsers are included in this page; mention of a specific browser does not imply endorsement or recommendation.
$326.26 billion
Jun
2026
Comptroller's 
Mailing List
Investor Relations
 Mailing List
Comptroller's Mailing List
Receive important news and analysis from the Comptroller's Office on major issues affecting New York City.
*
 indicates required
Email Address 
*
Subscriptions
Comptroller's Office Updates 
(1-2 emails/week)
Monthly Economic and Fiscal Outlook 
(1 email/month)
Note: To unsubscribe from a mailing list, please follow the instructions in the footer of the email you've received.
Email: 
Subscribe
Investor Relations Mailing List
Receive investor-related news and financial reports.
*
 indicates required
Email Address 
*
Subscriptions
Bonds Quarterly Wrap Up 
(4 emails/year)
Bond Sale Notification 
(~12 emails/year)
Comptroller's Budget Reports 
(~6 emails/year)
Comptroller's Cash Reports 
(4 emails/year)
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report 
(1 email/year)
Note: To unsubscribe from a mailing list, please follow the instructions in the footer of the email you've received.
Email: 
Subscribe
