
<<<PAGE 1>>>
MAYOR’S
MANAGEMENT 
REPORT
The City of New York 
Mayor Zohran K. Mamdani
Elle Bisgaard-Church 
Chief of Staff
Annie Levers 
Director, Mayor’s Office of Operations
September 2026
<<<PAGE 2>>>
Photo Credit: Mayoral Photo Office
<<<PAGE 3>>>
To the People of New York City, 
Since our administration took office just over eight months ago, we have sought to waste 
no time delivering for the working people who power this city, yet increasingly struggle to 
afford to live here. 
From launching the city’s first free child care program for 2 year-olds to securing millions of 
dollars for tenants, workers and small businesses to filling a historic number of potholes, we 
have been guided by one defining principle: Government must work for the people it serves. 
Our work has only just begun. 
In the years ahead, we will keep driving down costs for New Yorkers, restoring faith in government and building public 
infrastructure that is the envy of the world. From the city’s first municipal grocery stores to the full implementation of 
universal child care, we will never stop working to deliver a city New Yorkers can afford to call home. 
Since 1977, the Mayor’s Management Report has given New Yorkers a window into how their government is performing. 
It is a tool for transparency and accountability, and this year’s report continues that tradition at a moment of transition 
and renewed purpose for our city. 
The report covers July 1, 2025, through June 30, 2026, capturing both the final months of the previous administration and 
the beginning of ours. It brings together the work of 45 agencies, more than 2,000 performance indicators and a clear 
picture of where city government is delivering, and where we have more work to do. 
Our progress is already visible. Affordable housing completions increased 20% to 26,971 homes. Child care voucher 
enrollment grew 20% to nearly 110,000 children and their families. We delivered on the basics, repairing 27% more 
potholes, cleaning more streets and vacant lots, and planting over 55,000 trees—a 61% increase. We also began building 
the roads and transit infrastructure New Yorkers deserve, including more than double the bus lanes of the prior year. 
We made New York safer while investing in essential social services. Major felony crime fell 2% citywide, including a 20% 
decline in murders. Assisted outpatient treatment reached more than 3,000 New Yorkers. And NYC 988 provided nearly 
467,000 crisis services, a 40% increase. 
We strengthened economic security, too—returning more than $48 million to workers whose rights were violated, 
increasing job placements by 33% and expanding food distribution by 32%. 
A repaired pothole means saving money because your car axle doesn’t break. A bus lane means less time stuck in traffic 
and more time with your family. An affordable home means you can raise your kids in the neighborhood where you were 
raised. Universal child care means you can go to work knowing your child is cared for. 
We will use this data to drive improvement, make it easier for New Yorkers to get the services they deserve and build a 
government that earns their trust by delivering every single day. 
And none of this work happens without the more than 300,000 city workers who clean our streets, teach our children, 
protect our families, care for our neighborhoods and keep this city running. To our incomparable city workers: Thank you. 
This city works because you do.
There is much more ahead and much more to do. We’re ready for it—together. 
Sincerely,
Zohran Kwame Mamdani 
Mayor
LETTER FROM THE MAYOR

<<<PAGE 4>>>

<<<PAGE 5>>>
Mayor’s  
Management  
Report
Fiscal 2026
The City of New York 
Mayor Zohran K. Mamdani
Elle Bisgaard-Church 
Chief of Staff
Annie Levers 
Director, Mayor’s Office of Operations
September 2026
<<<PAGE 6>>>
Page vi

<<<PAGE 7>>>
On behalf of the Mayor’s Office of Operations, I am pleased to submit the Fiscal 2026 Mayor’s Management Report (MMR).
For nearly five decades, the MMR has been a cornerstone of New York City’s commitment to transparent and accountable 
government. Produced in partnership with City agencies, it offers a rich historical record of how City government performs, 
helping New Yorkers, policymakers, and researchers understand what government delivers and how well it delivers it. This 
year’s report also reflects the early work of a new administration—in office since January, just half of this year’s reporting 
period—to make New York safer, more affordable, and more livable for working people, with new chapters on child care, 
fast and free buses, community safety, and affordable housing.
The Fiscal 2026 MMR provides a baseline for the new Administration, capturing six months of the Adams Administration, 
as well as the first six months of the Mamdani Administration, establishing a starting point for measuring progress 
going forward.
Accountability means being transparent about both our progress and where we need to do better. But the value of the 
MMR lies not only in what we report, but in how we use it. Its breadth allows us to spot patterns, ask better questions, 
and act on what we learn. This administration is focused on putting that data to work to improve services and outcomes 
for New Yorkers while ensuring every public dollar is used wisely.
The Mayor’s Office of Operations is proud to steward this longstanding resource and apply its data across City government. 
Under Mayor Mamdani’s leadership, we will build on this strong foundation with a sharper focus on the outcomes that 
matter most to New Yorkers and what the data tells us about whether we are achieving them.
Beyond the report, New Yorkers can explore the data themselves through Open Data and the Dynamic Mayor’s Management 
Report (DMMR), where they can track performance over time and dig deeper into the measures that matter most to them.
I want to thank the performance management liaisons across City agencies and the staff of the Mayor’s Office of Operations 
whose expertise and dedication make this report possible and carry forward New York City’s deep-rooted commitment to 
public accountability.
Sincerely,
Annie Levers 
Director, Mayor’s Office of Operations
MESSAGE FROM THE DIRECTOR
<<<PAGE 8>>>

<<<PAGE 9>>>
Introduction
Collaborating to  
Deliver Results
  05 Bus Action Plan
  09  SAFER NYC: Safety Access and Fairness  
for Every Resident of New York City
  15  Block by Block: The Housing Plan  
for a New Era
  27  Child Care for All
  35  Vision Zero: Building a Safer City
Agency Chapters
43  Public Safety and Access to Justice
  45 New York City Police Department
  57 Fire Department
  67 New York City Emergency Management
  75 Department of Correction
  85 Department of Probation
  93 Civilian Complaint Review Board
 101 Law Department 
 107 Department of Investigation
 113 City Commission on Human Rights
 121 Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings
 129 Business Integrity Commission
135  Basic Services for All New Yorkers
 137 Department of Sanitation
 147 Department of Parks and Recreation
 159 Department of Cultural Affairs
 167  Department of Consumer and 
Worker Protection
 177 311 Customer Service Center
 181 Taxi and Limousine Commission
189  Health and Human Services
 191 Department of Health and Mental Hygiene
 205 Office of Chief Medical Examiner
 215 NYC Health + Hospitals  
 225 Human Resources Administration
 237 Administration for Children’s Services
 249 Department of Homeless Services
 259 Department for the Aging
267  Building Human Potential
 269 Department of Education
 291 School Construction Authority
 295  Department of Youth and  
Community Development
 305 Public Libraries
 311 City University of New York
 319 Department of Small Business Services
 325 Department of Veterans’ Services
331  Infrastructure and Sustainability
 333 Department of Environmental Protection
 343 Department of Transportation
 355 Department of Buildings
 365 Department of Design and Construction
371   Promoting Viable Communities  
and Neighborhoods
 373 Department of City Planning
 385  New York City Economic 
Development Corporation
 395  Department of Housing Preservation  
and Development
 411 New York City Housing Authority
 421 Landmarks Preservation Commission
427  Administrative Services
 429  Department of Citywide  
Administrative Services
 443  Department of Records and  
Information Services
 449 Department of Finance
 459 Office of Technology and Innovation
 467 Board of Elections
Appendix
 471 Additional Tables
 529 MMR User’s Guide 
 530 Index of Agencies
Table of Contents
<<<PAGE 10>>>

<<<PAGE 11>>>
INTRODUCTION
MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT 
As mandated by Section 12 of the New York City Charter, the Mayor reports to the public and the City Council twice yearly 
on the performance of municipal Agencies in delivering services. The annual Mayor’s Management Report (MMR) covers 
the 12-month fiscal year period, from July through June. The Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR) covers 
performance for the first four months of the fiscal year, from July through October. The Charter provisions governing the 
submission of the MMR/PMMR can be viewed on the Mayor’s Office of Operations’ website at www.nyc.gov/mmr. 
The MMR and PMMR cover the operations of City Agencies that report directly to the Mayor. Three additional non-Mayoral 
Agencies are included, for a total of 45 Agencies and organizations. Activities that have direct impact on New Yorkers—
including the provision of support services to other agencies—are the focus of the report. A set of services is listed at the 
beginning of each Agency chapter. Within each service area, goals articulate the Agency’s aspirations. The services and goals 
were developed through collaboration between the Mayor’s Office of Operations and the senior leadership of each Agency. 
The “Performance Indicators” tables contain the following information for the measurements of each Agency’s goals: 
1. In the MMR, the most recent five full fiscal years of data are presented. In the PMMR, data are shown for the first four 
months of the current and preceding fiscal years, in addition to three previous full fiscal years. 
2. A star designation () showing which indicators are deemed critical. 
3. Numeric targets, if appropriate, allowing for the comparison of actual performance against these projected levels of 
service. Targets for the next year are set initially in the PMMR based on the City’s preliminary budget and are later 
updated in the MMR, if necessary, based on the adopted budget or revised performance expectations. 
Because resources affect an Agency’s ability to perform, the MMR and PMMR also present, for each Agency, an overview 
of resources used, and resources projected for use including personnel, overtime, expenditures, revenues and capital 
commitments. Additionally, spending and budget information are provided by budgetary units of appropriation, and, where 
possible, are shown in relation to an Agency’s goals. 
Each Agency chapter also contains information regarding how well the Agency is serving its customers including timeliness 
in responding to e-mails, letters and service requests made through the City’s 311 Customer Service Center. 
At the end of each chapter there is a “Noteworthy Changes, Additions or Deletions” section where important changes are 
noted, including updates and corrections to information presented in previous reports.
“Additional Resources” provides the full internet addresses of links to additional Agency information and statistics, including 
the Agency’s website. 
A “User’s Guide” in the appendix of the MMR/PMMR identifies and describes each component of an Agency’s chapter.
The MMR/PMMR is available online in the form of a printable book. Both reports can be viewed at www.nyc.gov/mmr. The 
website also includes the following:
1. Definitions for each Agency performance indicator including the data source. 
2. Additional tables showing information of interest across Agencies, including workforce absence rates and fleet vehicle 
usage. 
3. An archive of all previously released reports beginning Fiscal 1997. 
<<<PAGE 12>>>
Agency performance data can also be viewed on the Dynamic Mayor’s Management Report (DMMR). The DMMR platform 
facilitates more nuanced and granular analysis of Agency performance to increase public understanding of New York City’s 
goals and services. 
DMMR users can explore the entire historic record for each indicator, allowing them to see long-term trends for the entire 
period selected. Further, the DMMR is updated monthly, making indicators available more frequently than the twice-
yearly MMR/PMMR cycle. Community-level information for selected performance indicators in the MMR, disaggregated 
by local service district (community district, police precinct or school district), is available on the DMMR. Visit the DMMR 
at dmmr.nyc.gov.
MMR/PMMR data for performance indicators and resource indicators can also be found on NYC Open Data at 
opendata.cityofnewyork.us . 
<<<PAGE 13>>>
UPDATE ON EQUITY REPORTING IN THE MAYOR’S  
MANAGEMENT REPORT 
Since its inception in 1977, the Mayor’s Management Report (MMR) has evolved alongside the City’s approach to performance 
management and government transparency. This evolution included efforts to align the MMR with the City’s expanding 
equity priorities, positioning it as a tool to understand and assess government performance and service delivery through an 
equity lens. Currently, the MMR reports on equity in two primary ways: 1) through the Focus on Equity narrative sections, 
where agencies describe how they work to deliver services equitably, and 2) through equity indicator designations, which 
identify performance metrics that align with the City’s EquityNYC report. Additionally, in the Dynamic Mayor’s Management 
Report—a digitized and interactive version of the MMR—some indicators are disaggregated by geography and displayed 
as mapped data. These maps provide a way to assess disparities in service delivery across neighborhoods. 
Strengthening how equity is measured and reported in the MMR remains an ongoing process. The development of New 
York City’s first Citywide Racial Equity Plan (REP) marks an important next step in the City’s broader equity work and creates 
an opportunity to further improve how equity is reflected in the MMR. 
In 2022, New York City voters approved a Charter amendment (codified as Local Law 121 of 2022) that added a new 
equity chapter to the City Charter, including establishing the Office of Racial Equity (§3401) and Commission on Racial 
Equity (§3404) and mandating the development of Racial Equity Plans (§3403). The Mayor’s Office of Equity and Racial 
Justice (MOERJ) led this essential work in collaboration with dedicated agency staff and published the Preliminary Plan in 
April 2026 and the Final Plan in August 2026.  
The Plan establishes a shared framework for how agencies identify racial disparities, define equity goals, and outline 
strategies to improve outcomes for the communities they serve. Each agency assessed its work across core government 
levers—service delivery, staffing, contracting, and budgeting—crucial to advancing racial equity and structural reform. 
Agencies set specific goals, outcomes, and strategies for the short-, medium-, and long-term and included indicators 
for each to track and measure progress. It will serve as a foundation for agency’s equity priorities and support long-term 
accountability.
The Mayor’s Office of Operations (Operations), who works to compile the MMR, supported MOERJ with its initial REP 
review process by providing input on the development of performance indicators. To ensure the finalized REP priorities 
are reflected in the MMR, Operations plans to update the Focus on Equity statements in each agency’s MMR chapter to 
more clearly reflect agencies’ racial equity goals, the populations they seek to serve, and the most recent actions they are 
taking to address racial inequities, among other efforts they are undertaking to advance equity citywide. Operations will 
also collaborate with MOERJ to explore opportunities to incorporate relevant performance metrics identified in the finalized 
REP and collaborate in future Racial Equity Plan cycles.
As the City’s primary public performance management report, the MMR must reflect agencies’ most current priorities—and 
Operations’ work to update these sections is central to keeping the City accountable to New Yorkers on equitable service 
delivery.
To read the finalized Racial Equity Plan, please visit: https://www.nyc.gov/site/equity/about/racial-equity-planning.page.
<<<PAGE 14>>>

<<<PAGE 15>>>
MAIN DIVIDERS  |  Page 3
Collaborating to 
Deliver Results
<<<PAGE 16>>>
Page 4  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 17>>>
PARTNER 
AGENCIES  
& OFFICES 
Collaborating 
to Deliver 
Results
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: BUS ACTION PLAN  |  Page 5
BUS ACTION PLAN
INTRODUCTION
Every day, New Yorkers take 2.75 million trips on a bus network that covers approximately 
1,600 miles of the City’s streets. Buses connect riders to their families, higher-paying jobs, 
top healthcare, educational opportunities, comprehensive community services, and cultural 
institutions across the five boroughs. 
Even with significant investments in buses citywide over the last two decades, New York City 
buses remain slow, crawling behind other street traffic at an average of just eight miles per 
hour. Buses are forced to navigate crowded streets, getting stuck at congested intersections 
and spending unnecessary time waiting at red lights. Bus bunching occurs when buses fail 
to stick to their schedules and end up spaced close together, creating irregular and unreliable 
service. At crowded, high-ridership bus stops, buses are delayed by single-door boarding as 
large numbers of riders wait to board. All these delays compound, leaving riders frustrated 
by slow, inconsistent service. 
In a historic partnership, the City and New York State launched Next Stop: Fast Buses, Better 
Service in July 2026, an ambitious bus action plan to deliver a faster, more reliable, and more 
comfortable bus ride at every stage of a rider’s journey. Throughout Next Stop, both the 
Department of Transportation (DOT) and Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) will 
keep bus riders front and center, ensuring their needs and voices shape planning, design, and 
implementation. DOT, MTA, and partner agencies will also uphold a strong commitment to 
accountability through a rigorous, data-driven monitoring program that tracks bus speeds, 
reliability, enforcement performance, and rider experience, enabling the agencies to identify 
challenges quickly, adjust strategies in real time, and maintain transparency with riders, 
communities, and elected officials as Next Stop is implemented.
Next Stop  sets the path toward a more efficient, sustainable, and people-centered bus 
transportation system that prioritizes transit, strengthens mobility, supports economic 
opportunity, and enhances quality of life across the five boroughs. The success of Next 
Stop will be measured not only by the completion of these initiatives, but by the tangible 
improvements that riders will experience every day: shorter travel times, less time waiting 
at bus stops, more reliable service, and comfortable, accessible stops that serve all New 
Yorkers. The indicators included in this chapter will measure the improvements made to bus 
infrastructure as well as quantify the overall ridership experience. This chapter marks the 
inaugural report on the implementation of Next Stop in the Mayor’s Management Report; 
indicators and updates on implementation will be added and expanded in future reports as 
the plan progresses.
To advance this vision, Next Stop set four ambitious goals with clear, actionable strategies 
that will shape the future of bus improvements citywide.
Metropolitan 
Transportation 
Authority
DOT
DPR
NYPD
<<<PAGE 18>>>
Page 6  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
FAST AND RELIABLE BUSES 
To meet the needs of New Yorkers, Next Stop commits to increase bus speeds by 20 percent and reduce rider delays 
at bus stops to less than 2 minutes past the scheduled wait time on 50 priority corridors across the city. DOT and 
MTA will implement a combination of infrastructure improvements, traffic signal innovation, and operational changes 
along priority corridors to meet these goals. Speed and reliability improvements will save riders up to six minutes 
during their journey.
VALUED BUS RIDERS
DOT commits to providing a more comfortable experience for bus riders by improving accessibility, shelter, shade, 
seating, and real-time passenger information at bus stops. By Calendar 2028, DOT will install 300 new bus shelters, and 
by Calendar 2030, DOT will install 2,900 new and technologically improved real-time passenger information (RTPI) signs. 
DOT will also implement seating at 875 stops per year to achieve universal seating at bus stops by Calendar 2035. As 
part of the Bus Stop Accessibility program, DOT will upgrade 35 inaccessible bus stops in Calendar 2026, scaling to at 
least 65 per year by Calendar 2030. Building upon the Department of Parks and Recreation’s (DPR) Neighborhood Tree 
Planting Program, DOT and DPR will plant 30 trees at bus stops in 2026, with the goal of inspecting all bus stops for 
street trees and planting as many as possible by 2035. Trees will bring shade to bus stops, and the City will coordinate 
with MTA to ensure new trees maintain clear paths for buses and riders.
CULTURE OF COURTESY AND RESPECT
Effective enforcement strategies ensure smooth, safe, and on-time journeys for bus riders and guarantee the streets are 
used as intended. DOT, the New York Police Department (NYPD), and MTA will employ a comprehensive, coordinated 
approach to keep buses moving through traffic. Specifically, DOT and MTA will expand Automated Camera Enforcement 
(ACE) to at least 50 additional routes by Calendar 2027, prioritizing high-ridership and delay-prone corridors. DOT 
and MTA will also deepen public education and engagement around the ACE program and the benefits of keeping 
the City’s streets clear. These comprehensive enforcement strategies will ensure that everyone uses the shared street 
network as it was designed to function.
QUALITY TRANSIT FOR ALL
New, world-class rapid bus routes will be planned, designed, and constructed to guarantee 90 percent of New Yorkers 
live within a half mile of a subway, rail, Select Bus, or new rapid bus station. To do so, DOT and MTA will launch world-
class rapid bus service to bridge mobility gaps and support future housing, population, and job growth. These rapid bus 
corridors will deliver fast and reliable service through transformative Bus Rapid Transit-style street design and enhanced 
stations with high-quality amenities. 
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Bus shelters installed DOT 0 0 47 44 107 * * Up Up
Bus stops that received accessibility upgrades DOT 0 31 40 45 42 * * Up Up
Routes activated with Automated Camera 
Enforcement DOT 11 17 25 25 29 * * Up Up
Bus stops with seating installed DOT 541 200 229 380 426 * * Neutral Up
Bus projects implemented DOT 6 8 8 4 7 * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 19>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: BUS ACTION PLAN  |  Page 7
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
None.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Next Stop: Fast Buses, Better Service:  
https://www.nyc.gov/html/dot/downloads/pdf/next-stop-fast-buses-better-service.pdf
• Select Bus Service: 
https://www.nyc.gov/html/dot/downloads/pdf/nyc-dot-select-bus-service-report.pdf
<<<PAGE 20>>>
Page 8  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 21>>>
PARTNER 
AGENCIES  
& OFFICES 
Collaborating 
to Deliver 
Results
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: SAFER NYC: SAFETY ACCESS AND FAIRNESS FOR EVERY RESIDENT OF NEW YORK CITY  |  Page 9
SAFER NYC: SAFETY ACCESS AND 
FAIRNESS FOR EVERY RESIDENT OF 
NEW YORK CITY 
INTRODUCTION
New York City is advancing a new era of community safety—one that recognizes that 
achieving lasting safety requires more than responding to crises. Building safer communities 
also means preventing harm, supporting victims and survivors of violence, expanding 
access to culturally responsive care, addressing conditions that contribute to violence, and 
strengthening the social fabric of communities. Every New Yorker deserves a City where 
they can walk through their neighborhood without fear. They deserve to live free from 
violence in their homes and relationships, to be safe from bias and hate, and to have the 
support needed to move from crisis to stabilization. Every community should also be able 
to define and shape what safety looks like in their neighborhoods to ensure safety solutions 
reflect their specific needs and priorities. 
In reflection of this understanding of comprehensive community safety, Executive Order 
15, issued on March 19, 2026, established the Office of Community Safety (OCS) and 
the Office of the Deputy Mayor for Community Safety (DMCS) as the first steps toward 
creating a Department of Community Safety—a City agency committed to building safer 
communities for all New Yorkers. Together, these offices advance Safety Access and Fairness 
for Every Resident of New York City (SAFER NYC), a whole-of-government approach that 
aligns agencies, resources, and partners around a shared goal: a safer New York City where 
every person has the tools and resources to flourish and live free from violence and harm.
Fiscal 2026 marks the first time New York City has ever had a Deputy Mayor for Community 
Safety (DMCS). DMCS is working to bring together the best available evidence on 
addressing safety gaps with the priorities that New Yorkers have identified. To inform 
this work, DMCS and OCS launched a Youth Listening Tour in Fiscal 2026, reaching over 
1,400 students, and organized conversations and roundtables with community coalitions. 
Additional engagement is planned for Fiscal 2027 to further inform the forthcoming SAFER 
NYC strategic plan. 
Led by DMCS, the five-year SAFER NYC strategic plan will be published in Fiscal 2027 and 
will outline a citywide approach to reduce violence and strengthen community safety. It will 
identify the people, places, and situations at greatest risk of harm and apply strategies to 
prevent and interrupt cycles of violence, respond effectively to crises, and support healing 
for individuals and communities. It will also establish milestones, metrics, and opportunities 
for scaling and improvement. 
This work is focused across five core areas: community violence prevention and intervention; 
hate violence and intergroup conflict; domestic and gender-based violence prevention 
and response; victim and survivor support; and behavioral health and crisis response. 
These areas also intersect with improving the built environment and promoting healing, 
restoration, and community resilience. Whether through improving physical infrastructure, 
addressing social disconnection, or expanding access to economic mobility, community 
safety requires a multifaceted approach grounded in dignity, care, and opportunity. SAFER 
Mayor’s Office 
of Community 
Safety
Mayor’s 
Office for 
Neighborhood 
Safety
Mayor’s Office 
to End Domestic 
and Gender-
Based Violence
Mayor’s Office 
of Crime Victims 
Services 
Mayor’s 
Office for the 
Prevention of 
Hate Crimes 
Mayor’s Office 
of Community 
Mental Health 
Mayor’s Office 
of Criminal 
Justice
DHS
DOHMH
DYCD
FDNY
H+H
HRA
NYCHA
NYPD
<<<PAGE 22>>>
Page 10  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NYC will invest in resources to support well-coordinated responses and services, centered in community and informed 
by the experiences of those closest to the solutions. This approach will help meet New Yorkers where they are and 
provide the support they need. 
OCS is essential to this work and consolidates under one umbrella several existing Mayor’s Offices, including: the 
Office of Crime Victims Services (OCVS), the Office for Neighborhood Safety (ONS), the Office to End Domestic and 
Gender-Based Violence (ENDGBV), the Office for the Prevention of Hate Crimes (OPHC), and the Office of Community 
Mental Health (OCMH). Across their work, OCS prioritizes equity, accessibility, and community-based approaches 
that minimize New Yorkers’ unnecessary involvement with the criminal legal system. Through partnerships with 
communities, City and State government agencies, and service providers, OCS’s core mission is to: 
• Prevent violence and harm through education, early intervention, community-based prevention, and evidence-
based strategies that address the conditions which increase individuals’ and communities’ vulnerability to violence. 
• Intervene effectively in moments of heightened risk and crisis through timely, appropriate responses that 
reduce immediate risks, de-escalate conflict, stabilize individuals and communities, and connect New Yorkers to 
appropriate care and support. 
• Support victims, survivors, families, and communities through accessible, survivor-centered services and 
resources that promote safety, stability, healing, and recovery after experiencing violence.
• Collaborate with communities as partners in safety  by investing in community-based solutions; fostering 
belonging, social connection, and resilience; and ensuring New Yorkers most impacted by violence and harm help 
shape strategies and investments that affect their communities. 
• Strengthen systems, partnerships, and the community safety workforce by coordinating agencies, providers, 
and resources; investing in the people and infrastructure that deliver community safety strategies; identifying gaps 
and barriers; and using research, data, training, policy, and lived expertise to improve how the City prevents and 
responds to harm.
COMMUNITY VIOLENCE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION
Gun violence has declined significantly in New York City in recent years. Shooting incidents decreased by 16 percent 
from 804 in Fiscal 2025 to 673 in Fiscal 2026, which marked a 61 percent decline from their peak of 1,741 in Fiscal 
2021. Despite this progress, community violence continues to disproportionately impact certain neighborhoods and 
demographics more than others, underscoring the need for sustained, evidenced-based and place-based prevention 
and intervention strategies. For example, youth victims of gun violence have increased over the past five fiscal 
years, contributing to the broader rise in felony crimes committed against youth. These trends highlight the need 
for targeted youth-focused interventions that address immediate risks of gun violence while also addressing the 
underlying conditions that affect young New Yorkers long-term safety and well-being.
OCS promotes a public health approach to community and gun violence prevention and intervention, primarily 
through the Office for Neighborhood Safety (ONS). ONS advances this work through multiple programs and strategies 
that span immediate violence intervention, early prevention, and long-term neighborhood investment. One of these 
programs is the Crisis Management System (CMS)—the City’s community violence intervention network, which 
supports community-based organizations that use the Cure Violence model, an evidence-based public health strategy 
built to interrupt violence, mediate conflict, build trusted relationships, and connect individuals at elevated risk of 
engaging in violence to mentorship, case management, and other supportive services. By combining street outreach 
with community healing and wraparound supports, CMS helps prevent violence before it occurs and supports 
communities in the aftermath of violence. CMS providers conducted 14,232 community violence interventions 
through de-escalation and mediation in Fiscal 2026, down seven percent from 15,268 interventions in Fiscal 2025.
<<<PAGE 23>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: SAFER NYC: SAFETY ACCESS AND FAIRNESS FOR EVERY RESIDENT OF NEW YORK CITY  |  Page 11
The Atlas program, also run by ONS, complements these efforts by connecting young people and adults at elevated 
risk of violence involvement to evidence-based therapeutic services that strengthen protective factors to reduce 
violence and recidivism. Atlas engaged 1,127 participants in Fiscal 2026, similar to the number of individuals engaged 
in Fiscal 2025, reflecting consistent efforts to work with individuals at elevated risk of engaging in violence. 
At the neighborhood level, ONS’ NeighborhoodStat program brings New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) 
residents, community-based organizations, and City agencies together to identify local priorities, guide community-
driven investments, and strengthen the physical and social conditions that contribute to safer communities. In Fiscal 
2026, 5,564 NYCHA residents engaged in the participatory budget process through NeighborhoodStat, 35 percent 
fewer than in Fiscal 2025. This reflects the participation of 13 NYCHA sites in NeighborhoodStat compared to 15 sites 
in Fiscal 2025. Though fewer residents participated overall, NeighborhoodStat nonetheless built capacity amongst 
residents—the most essential partners for creating safer and healthier communities. In Fiscal 2027, NeighborhoodStat 
will expand participation to 16 NYCHA sites and implement strategies to increase resident engagement in the 
participatory budgeting process, with the goal of building upon prior levels of participation.
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Shooting incidents NYPD 1,461 1,140 932 804 673 * * Down Down
Crime committed against youths (7 major 
felonies) NYPD 4,037 4,529 5,177 5,623 5,676 * * Up Down
 Crisis Management System mediations and 
de-escalations OCS NA NA NA 15,268 14,232 ñ ñ NA Up
 Participants engaged in Atlas services OCS 373 653 884 1,137 1,127 ñ ñ Up Up
NYCHA residents voting in the participatory 
budgeting process OCS NA NA NA 8,596 5,564 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
DOMESTIC AND GENDER-BASED VIOLENCE PREVENTION AND 
RESPONSE
Domestic violence (DV) and gender-based violence (GBV) remain significant issues affecting New Yorkers across every 
borough. Survivors often face interconnected barriers to safety, including housing instability, economic insecurity, 
legal barriers, and mental health challenges. Understanding and preventing violence at the community level requires 
recognizing that DV and GBV affect not only individuals and relationships, but the safety and well-being of families and 
communities. Strategies for interrupting DV and GBV must be responsive to their distinct dynamics, including violence 
that may occur in private, specific patterns of power and control, and social and patriarchal norms that can perpetuate 
abuse or silence survivors. Preventing violence and supporting survivors’ calls for coordinated, survivor-centered strategies 
that address both immediate safety needs and the long-term conditions that promote healing, stability, and well-being 
is crucial to addressing DV and GBV. 
OCS advances this work primarily through the Office to End Domestic and Gender-Based Violence (ENDGBV), which 
leads the City’s efforts to prevent DV and GBV, strengthen coordinated responses, and expand access to survivor-centered 
services. Working alongside community-based organizations, City agencies, healthcare providers, and advocates, 
ENDGBV promotes prevention through public education and healthy relationship programming while ensuring survivors 
can access comprehensive support through multiple pathways. These include the 24-hour NYC HOPE Hotline, which a 
survivor can call to be connected to various supports, and Family Justice Centers in each borough, where survivors can 
walk in for case management, legal services, mental health services, and other supports. The Home+ program helps 
survivors stay safely in their homes through the provision of flexible funding grants, a Personal Emergency Response 
System (PERS) alarm, and locksmith services. Together, these initiatives reflect OCS’s commitment to preventing DV and 
GBV, reducing barriers to services, and helping survivors achieve safety and long-term stability. 
<<<PAGE 24>>>
Page 12  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
In Fiscal 2026, utilization of the NYC HOPE Hotline increased three percent from Fiscal 2025, with 96,755 calls made 
to 1-800-621-HOPE (4673). This increase is partially due to investments in advertising and public awareness efforts to 
increase the visibility and accessibility of the Hotline. Family Justice Center utilization remained relatively stable in Fiscal 
2026, with 63,340 visits in Fiscal 2026, a one percent decrease from Fiscal 2025. In Fiscal 2026, the Home+ program 
helped 439 individuals maintain stable housing. Increased investments in Home+ in Fiscal 2027 are expected to expand 
the program’s reach in the future. 
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Calls to the NYC Hope hotline OCS 102,825 100,485 105,463 93,942 96,755 * * Neutral *
 Family Justice Center visits OCS 51,532 50,083 51,828 64,109 63,340 * * Up *
Home+ clients provided housing stability OCS NA NA NA NA 439 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
VICTIM AND SURVIVOR SERVICES
OCS supports victims of violence and crime by improving access to timely, trauma-informed advocacy and services 
that promote safety, healing, and recovery. Through the Crime Victim Assistance Program (CVAP), administered by 
ENDGBV, trained advocates are stationed in New York Police Department (NYPD) precincts across the City to provide 
safety planning, crisis intervention, referrals, and ongoing support to victims of all crimes. CVAP helps ensure victims 
receive immediate assistance and are connected to longer-term resources that address their individual needs. 
In Fiscal 2026, 43,241 crime victims received individualized safety planning through CVAP , a five percent decrease from 
the previous fiscal year. The decrease is largely due to staffing shortages following a 17 percent budget cut in Fiscal 
2025, which reduced CVAP’s capacity to serve victims. CVAP funding has been restored to $16 million in the Fiscal 2027 
budget, which will support increased staffing and strengthen the program’s capacity to provide timely safety planning 
and supportive services. Looking ahead, OCS is exploring opportunities to expand CVAP’s reach beyond police precincts 
by collaborating with community-based organizations to create additional pathways to support victims who may not 
wish to engage with law enforcement.
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Crime Victim Assistance Program clients 
provided safety planning services OCS 35,009 53,222 49,749 45,661 43,241 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
HATE VIOLENCE PREVENTION
OCS employs a community-centered approach to prevent hate violence through the Office for the Prevention 
of Hate Crimes (OPHC). OPHC works with community-based organizations, schools, faith institutions, and City 
agencies across three strategic pillars: youth and education, community relations, and victim support. Together, these 
strategies promote inclusion, reduce bias, strengthen community connections, and prevent hate violence before it 
occurs. Additionally, OPHC advances trauma-informed responses by helping individuals and communities stabilize 
and recover from hate violence.
<<<PAGE 25>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: SAFER NYC: SAFETY ACCESS AND FAIRNESS FOR EVERY RESIDENT OF NEW YORK CITY  |  Page 13
In Fiscal 2026, participation in hate prevention programs led or funded by OPHC more than quadrupled from 62,059 
participants in Fiscal 2025 to 282,665 in Fiscal 2026. This growth reflects expanded investment and capacity from 
the City for hate crime prevention programming, as well as an increased network of community partners delivering 
programming, education, and resources across New York City. Youth participation in educational initiatives led or funded 
by OPHC remained relatively stable over the last fiscal year, reaching 7,474 young people in Fiscal 2026. Community 
partnerships remain central to OPHC’s prevention strategy, recognizing that preventing hate and bias requires trusted 
relationships across neighborhoods and institutions. OPHC partnered with 159 community-based organizations, schools, 
faith institutions, and City agencies this fiscal year, a 27 percent increase from Fiscal 2025, resulting from efforts to 
expand the network of partners working to prevent hate, reduce bias, promote inclusion, and strengthen communities. 
Funding for OPHC in Fiscal 2027 increased to $26 million.
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Participants in hate prevention programs led 
and funded by the Office for the Prevention of 
Hate Crimes OCS NA NA NA 62,059 282,665 ñ ñ NA Up
Youth participants in the Office for the Preven -
tion of Hate Crimes’ leadership and educational 
initiatives OCS NA NA NA 7,253 7,474 * * NA Up
Community-based organizations, schools, faith 
institutions, and City agencies partnering with 
the Office for the Prevention of Hate Crimes OCS NA NA NA 125 159 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CRISIS RESPONSE
OCS works to expand connection to health and mental health support for people experiencing mental health 
emergencies. Key to these efforts is the Behavioral Health Emergency Assistance Response Division (B-HEARD), which 
is overseen by the Office of Community Mental Health (OCMH) and operated through a coordinated effort between 
the New York City Fire Department (FDNY) and NYC Health + Hospitals. B-HEARD dispatches teams of FDNY Emergency 
Medical Technicians (EMTs) and NYC Health + Hospitals social workers to eligible 911 calls during mental health 
emergencies. The program helps ensure that New Yorkers receive the most appropriate and effective response to a 
behavioral health crisis while reducing unnecessary police contact and hospital transports when it is safe to do so.
In Fiscal 2026, 10,945 911 calls were eligible for a B-HEARD response, down 13 percent from 12,509 in Fiscal 2025. 
B-HEARD responded to 8,524 of these calls in Fiscal 2026, compared to 10,635 in Fiscal 2025. Among the individuals 
served by B-HEARD, 42 percent were served in the community rather than being transported to a hospital, up two 
percentage points from the last fiscal year. OCS is currently working with the program’s operating agencies, FDNY and 
NYC Health + Hospitals, to build on the existing model and strengthen program operations and performance so it can 
serve more New Yorkers. 
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
B-HEARD-eligible calls OCS 3,391 13,181 20,541 12,509 10,945 * * Up Up
B-HEARD-eligible calls responded to by B-
HEARD OCS 1,933 7,187 14,951 10,635 8,524 * * Up Up
 B-HEARD participants served in the com -
munity (%) OCS 48.0% 45.0% 43.0% 40.0% 42.0% ñ ñ Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 26>>>
Page 14  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Renita Francois was appointed Deputy Mayor for Community Safety in March 2026. 
• Dr. Ayesha Delany-Brumsey was appointed Commissioner of the Mayor’s Office of Community Safety in May 2026.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Summer 2026 Safety Strategy:  
https://www.nyc.gov/main/summer-safety 
• The Mayor’s Office to End Domestic and Gender Based Violence: 
https://www.nyc.gov/content/endgbv/pages/
• The Mayor’s Office for Neighborhood Safety: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/dycd/services/office-of-neighborhood-safety.page 
• The Mayor’s Office for the Prevention of Hate Crimes: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/stophate/index.page
• The Mayor’s Office of Community Mental Health: 
https://mentalhealth.cityofnewyork.us/
<<<PAGE 27>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: BLOCK BY BLOCK: THE HOUSING PLAN FOR A NEW ERA   |  Page 15
Collaborating 
to Deliver 
Results
BLOCK BY BLOCK: THE HOUSING 
PLAN FOR A NEW ERA
INTRODUCTION
New York City faces a dire housing crisis. The cost of living has skyrocketed over the 
last decade, as the number of available homes has plummeted. Nearly half of renter 
households, and 86 percent of those earning under $50,000 a year, are considered “rent 
burdened,” meaning they pay more than 30 percent of their income on rent. New Yorkers 
urgently need relief.
In May 2026, the Administration released Block by Block: The Housing Plan for a New Era 
(Block by Block) , an ambitious blueprint to tackle New York City’s housing crisis with the 
urgency and scale the moment demands. Block by Block represents an “all-of-the-above” 
strategy to tackle housing affordability, using every tool available. The plan includes actionable 
solutions to empower tenants and strengthen enforcement against bad landlords, makes 
historic City budget commitments in creating and preserving affordable housing, lowers the 
cost of operating existing buildings, and invests in the kinds of well-paying jobs that will lift up 
working class New Yorkers. The administration has also released the Streamlining Procedures 
to Expedite Equitable Development (SPEED) report, which details strategies to accelerate 
housing development; the Rental Ripoff Report, which outlines 23 tenant protection and 
code enforcement policy priorities; and the Land Inventory Fast Track (LIFT) Tracker, which 
identifies City-owned land where the administration is advancing affordable housing. Since 
the plan’s release in May, agencies have been getting these initiatives—and new housing—
off the ground.
While immediate relief is vitally important, so is setting up the City for the future. One of the 
primary constraints on affordability in New York City is the lack of sufficient housing supply. 
Block by Block marks the beginning of a citywide effort to build the housing New Yorkers 
need—including the administration’s commitment to build 200,000 new affordable homes 
over the next 10 years, while simultaneously preserving and stabilizing an additional 200,000 
existing homes over the same period. As a part of this work, the City will empower the New 
York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) as a public developer, cut red tape to build more new 
homes at a faster pace, and invest in older buildings so they can continue providing affordable 
homes for generations to come, among other tactics.
EMPOWERING TENANTS AND STRENGTHENING 
ENFORCEMENT TO PRESERVE AFFORDABILITY AND 
IMPROVE HOUSING QUALITY
New Yorkers need more housing to be built and existing buildings to be better cared for. 
Historically, however, the goals of protecting tenants in their current homes and increasing the 
City’s housing supply have often been viewed in tension with one another. Block by Block takes 
a different approach—one that seeks to strengthen tenant protections, shore up the quality of 
existing housing, and build new housing, all at the same time. Coupled with the Administration’s 
Rental Ripoff Report published in July 2026, Block by Block envisions a collaboration between 
tenants, landlords, homeowners, and the City to tackle the housing crisis. 
PARTNER 
AGENCIES  
& OFFICES 
New York 
City Housing 
Development 
Corporation
Mayor’s Office 
to Protect 
Tenants
Mayor’s Office 
of Housing 
Recovery 
Operations
Mayor’s Office 
of Deed Theft 
Prevention
Public 
Engagement 
Unit
DCP
DOB
DOHMH
DYCD
EDC
HPD
HRA
NYCHA
<<<PAGE 28>>>
Page 16  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
This collaboration requires opening new avenues to hear tenant feedback and developing strategies for City agencies and 
developers to respond efficiently and effectively. Meanwhile, Block by Block initiates investments to preserve the financial 
and physical health of existing housing and reduce operating costs to bring rents down and quality up.
HPD’s ongoing work to advance enforcement, increase the availability of affordable housing, and improve housing quality 
is critical to the goals of Block by Block. In Fiscal 2026, HPD financed the preservation of 13,972 affordable homes and 
provided stabilization financing to another 17,366 units (72 percent more than in Fiscal 2025) including through the J-51 
tax abatement program to help residential building owners offset the cost of rehabilitation work. HPD also advanced the 
goal of improving housing quality through enforcement of the Housing Maintenance Code and the operation of special 
enforcement programs including Underlying Conditions (UC), Alternative Enforcement Program (AEP), and the 7A program, 
all of which target enforcement towards buildings with the most severe and pervasive housing quality problems. A total 
of 6,346 housing units were in buildings where there was compliance with a 7A consent order or were discharged from 
these HPD special enforcement programs in Fiscal 2026, a 31 percent increase from Fiscal 2025. In addition to responding 
to and closing complaints of housing maintenance problems received by the public, HPD worked to proactively enforce 
housing maintenance code through 12,503 proactive building visits in Fiscal 2026, a 13 percent increase from Fiscal 2025. 
Accomplishments in Fiscal 2026
• Revitalized the Mayor’s Office to Protect Tenants (MOPT):  On January 1, 2026, the Administration issued 
Executive Order 3 to revitalize MOPT to coordinate tenant protection initiatives across agencies, appointed a 
director, and significantly increased the number of staff.
• Hosted Rental Ripoff Hearings and released the Rental Ripoff Report:  Pursuant to Executive Order 8, the 
Administration hosted hearings in each of the five boroughs in February through April 2026, to give New Yorkers 
a direct platform to share their housing experiences in one-on-one conversations with City officials and help shape 
housing policy. Approximately 1,500 participants attended in-person, over 850 of whom provided testimony directly 
to a senior City official. Overall, more than 2,400 New Yorkers participated in the Rental Ripoff hearings, both in 
person and through online testimony. In July 2026, MOPT released the Rental Ripoff Report, summarizing findings 
and feedback from the hearings and outlining 23 actions the Administration will take to address those concerns.
• Cracked down on falsely certified violations: In February 2026, HPD released its second annual Certification 
Watchlist, publicly highlighting 100 buildings with over 7,500 falsely certified violations in order to emphasize the 
importance of compliance.
• Supported tenant organizing citywide:  HPD’s Partners in Preservation program supports tenant organizing 
groups that help tenants address unsafe conditions and harassment from their landlords. Tenant organizers at 20 
trusted organizations across 39 community districts engage renters to form tenant associations and take collective 
action to hold negligent landlords accountable. In Fiscal 2026, organizers canvassed over 500 buildings, knocked 
on more than 24,000 doors, and connected with 3,855 tenants.
• Connected New Yorkers to resources through Tenant Helpline and outreach: The Public Engagement Unit 
(PEU) provides tenants with free, confidential information on their rights, assists them with navigating housing-
related issues, and connects them to a range of resources, including anti-eviction legal assistance and rent freeze 
programs. PEU operates the City’s Tenant Helpline, a centralized hub that handled more than 21,000 calls in 
FY26. Tenant Support Specialists also conducted proactive outreach to connect tenants with City programs, legal 
assistance, and community resources. In Fiscal 2026, this outreach included canvassing more than 3,000 buildings 
and knocking on more than 50,000 doors, resulting in conversations with over 14,000 tenants. Additionally, the 
Public Engagement Unit’s Rent Freeze team submitted more than 1,200 applications for the Senior Citizen Rent 
Increase Exemption (SCRIE) and Disability Rent Increase Exemption (DRIE) programs, which are signature programs 
that limit rent increases for New Yorkers in rent stabilized apartments outside of the independent Rent Guidelines 
Board process.
<<<PAGE 29>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: BLOCK BY BLOCK: THE HOUSING PLAN FOR A NEW ERA   |  Page 17
• Expanded Neighborhood Internet: In May 2026, the City announced a $2 million investment in Neighborhood 
Internet, which provides free, high-speed broadband services to low-income New Yorkers in Upper Manhattan and 
the Bronx.
• Invested in a first-of-its-kind City-backed insurance program to reduce operating costs:  To address the 
rising costs of insurance, broaden the reach of the City’s affordable housing subsidy, and help building operators 
make repairs, the City is designing and launching a new insurance program that will begin offering coverage in 
Calendar 2027. In April 2026, the New York City Housing Development Corporation (HDC) released a Request 
for Proposals (RFP) for an actuary or risk consultant to inform program design. In June 2026, the New York City 
Economic Development Corporation (EDC) released a Request for Expressions of Interest (RFEI) soliciting proposals 
for how best to structure and operate the new insurance program.
• Protected tenants from negligent landlords: 
 − Pinnacle Group was responsible for more than 5,000 housing violations and 14,000 complaints across 83 
buildings, as well as money owed to the City of New York at the beginning of Calendar 2026. New York City 
intervened in their bankruptcy proceedings and, alongside the Union of Pinnacle Tenants, achieved a pledge in 
January from the portfolio’s buyer to remediate urgent violations within 60 days and all violations within 180 
days, and commit $30 million to repairs over the next five years.
 − A&E Real Estate Holdings, was subject to a $2.1 million settlement across 14 buildings announced in January 
that included addressing hazardous conditions and ceasing tenant harassment—the largest settlement ever 
won by HPD’s Anti-Harassment Unit.
 − The owner of 919 Prospect Avenue in the Bronx has consistently been placed on the Public Advocate’s “Worst 
Landlords Watchlist,” and this building faces numerous health and safety violations. In March, the City received a 
first-of-its-kind ruling in a case against the owners of 919 Prospect Avenue, in which the City won the maximum 
penalties available and an order for the landlord to address noncompliance within specified timeframes. The 
landlord is obliged to pay $1,000 for each day that a public nuisance has persisted, including a full retroactive 
penalty of $2,174,000. The City continues its efforts to ensure violations are cleared at the building and to 
collect the civil penalties that are owed.
 − The owners of Robert Fulton Terrace  and Fordham Towers in the Bronx were subject to $31 million in 
penalties in May for a series of violations including vermin infestations, chronic elevator outages, and a lack of 
heat and hot water. This is the largest penalty ever obtained by HPD.
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total affordable housing starts (units) HPD 17,461 25,453 26,457 28,852 26,913 20,000 28,000 Up Up
 - Preservation starts HPD 37% 48% 40% 53% 51% ñ ñ Up Up
 Stabilization housing assistance starts (units) HPD NA 16,244 12,789 10,125 17,366 ñ ñ NA Up
 Median time to close emergency problems 
(days) HPD 4.0 4.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 ò ò Down Down
Median time to close non-emergency problems 
(days) HPD 13.0 13.0 12.0 10.0 12.0 * * Down Down
Median time to first inspection (days) — Heat 
and hot water problems HPD 2.1 2.0 1.6 1.9 2.0 * * Neutral Down
Units in buildings discharged from enforcement 
programs: 7A, Alternative Enforcement Program, 
& Underlying Conditions HPD 4,392 3,001 3,407 4,857 6,346 * * Up *
Proactive building visits by HPD Office of En -
forcement and Neighborhood Services HPD 9,684 9,700 10,422 11,069 12,503 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 30>>>
Page 18  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SECURING NYCHA’S FUTURE
Public housing is a vital component of New York City and provides critical affordable housing across the five boroughs. 
Today, NYCHA is home to one in 17 New Yorkers, and its deeply affordable homes, with tenant rent contributions 
averaging $621 per month, are critical to keeping New York City inclusive and diverse.
For the last half century, NYCHA has faced significant disinvestment by the federal government, leading to an estimated 
$78 billion in capital needs across its properties. Block by Block offers new solutions to meet these physical needs and 
to plan for NYCHA’s growth into the future, including by investing in necessary fixes to building systems, installing clean 
heat, turning over more vacant units with the help of the largest capital commitment to vacant units in City history, 
empowering tenants to participate in shaping the future of their communities, and positioning NYCHA as a public 
builder to create new, high-quality homes for NYCHA residents and other low-income New Yorkers. 
Key tools NYCHA is using to deliver comprehensive repairs and ensure long-term sustainability in its portfolio include 
the Permanent Affordability Commitment Together (PACT) program and the NYCHA Preservation Trust, which allow 
projects to access more stable federal Section 8 funding. Promisingly, after NYCHA’s capital needs backlog has risen 
significantly and consistently for decades, NYCHA has recently stabilized its capital needs shortfall at around $78 billion, 
offering an opportunity for progress towards reducing it.
In Fiscal 2026, NYCHA made significant progress toward improving quality of life for its tenants. Mold repair timelines 
improved drastically, with simple mold repairs completed within 7 days rising to 59.5 percent, up from 28.0 percent 
in Fiscal 2025—more than double the prior year’s rate—and complex mold repairs completed within 15 days rising to 
16.6 percent, up from 7.6 percent, also more than double. NYCHA also remained responsive to elevator repair needs, 
resolving 90.39 percent of outages within 10 hours, essentially flat compared to 89.65 percent in Fiscal 2025. Lead 
abatement continued to expand, with 6,063 units abated in Fiscal 2026, a 14.5 percent increase over the 5,295 units 
abated in Fiscal 2025.
Accomplishments in Fiscal 2026
• Invested in additional heat pumps:  In February 2026, the Administration committed $38.4 million to install 
and deliver clean, reliable heat pumps at NYCHA’s Beach 41st Street Houses in Edgemere, Queens, delivering 
modern heating and cooling to 712 homes as part of the City’s Clean Heat for All initiative. Once installed, the heat 
pumps will provide more consistent and reliable heating, efficient cooling in bedrooms and living rooms, individual 
temperature controls for residents, and improved hot water reliability.
• Launched “NYCHA in Your Neighborhood:” In May 2026, NYCHA launched this first-of-its-kind program to 
offer residents the opportunity to speak directly with senior leaders and connect with services from a range of City 
agencies.
• Moved forward projects that will ultimately receive comprehensive investments:
 − Campos Plaza II: In February 2026, NYCHA closed on financing for a PACT project serving over 450 residents in 
the East Village, which will provide fresh apartment interiors, modernized electric heating and cooling systems, 
and upgraded landscaping, among other improvements.
 − Moore Houses / East 152nd Street-Courtland Avenue: In May 2026, NYCHA closed on financing for a PACT 
project serving over 1,200 residents in the Bronx, which will provide fresh apartment interiors, mechanical and 
elevator modernization, and expansion of community facilities and social services, among other improvements.
 − Unity Towers: In June 2026, NYCHA selected the design-build team for modernization of 193 units in Coney 
Island through the Public Housing Preservation Trust.
<<<PAGE 31>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: BLOCK BY BLOCK: THE HOUSING PLAN FOR A NEW ERA   |  Page 19
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Active capital projects on track or with minor 
delays (%)  NYCHA NA NA 67.2% 75.4% 80.0% 75.0% 75.0% NA Up
 Average time to complete maintenance work 
orders (days)  NYCHA 8.10 6.23 5.03 4.06 3.98 7.00 7.00 Down Down
 Average time to complete skilled trades and 
vendor work orders (days)  NYCHA 77.40 109.04 133.37 129.65 119.14 * * Up *
Simple mold repairs completed within 7 days NYCHA 17.9% 28.1% 30.2% 28.0% 59.5% 95.0% 95.0% Up Up
Complex mold repairs completed within 15 days 
(%) NYCHA 2.1% 3.6% 3.7% 7.6% 16.6% 95.0% 95.0% Up Up
 PACT and Trust Portfolio — Cumulative units 
preserved NYCHA 15,426 18,023 21,751 27,185 32,218 ñ ñ Up Up
Average turnaround time for vacant units (days) NYCHA 160.8 370.0 424.4 371.1 357.6 300.0 300.0 Up Down
Elevator outages resolved within 10 hours (%) NYCHA 71.80% 77.78% 87.12% 89.65% 90.39% * * Up Up
Units abated for lead NYCHA 621 3,267 5,037 5,295 6,063 * * Up Up
Resident job placements NYCHA 1,663 2,652 2,531 2,361 1,915 * * Neutral Up
 NYCHA Section 9 developments with an ac -
tive resident association (% of total) NYCHA NA NA NA NA 87% ñ ñ NA Up
Cumulative apartments with heat pumps 
installed NYCHA NA NA NA NA 1,129 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
BUILDING NEIGHBORHOODS FOR WORKING PEOPLE AND 
INVESTING IN STRONG JOBS AND INNOVATION
New York City needs more homes of all types to solve the housing crisis. Block by Block commits to building 200,000 
new affordable homes and preserving and stabilizing 200,000 existing homes over the next decade, the most 
ambitious production targets set by any mayoral administration in the City’s modern history. The Administration 
has made a historic funding commitment of $22 billion in capital over five years for affordable housing to support 
these goals. At the same time, the City is leveraging an aggressive land use agenda, increased flexibility in zoning 
and permitting, regulatory and code reforms, and new financing tools to unlock the development of more housing 
overall and tackle the severe shortage of housing supply head-on. 
The ambitious production agenda in Block by Block  will not only address the housing crisis but also provide critical 
opportunities to strengthen jobs and innovation. As the City works to build the hundreds of thousands of units of 
new housing that New Yorkers need, it will focus on creating homes that make sense for the 21st-century household, 
embracing cutting-edge innovation to improve the design and quality of new housing, and creating high-quality, 
well-paid jobs in the process. The Administration is also investing in the development of local supply chains and 
manufacturing, collaborating across agencies to advance construction safety, and revisiting the housing code to 
allow for faster and more efficient housing construction.
Production indicators in Fiscal 2026 demonstrate the City’s commitment to addressing the lack of affordable 
housing options for low-income households. In Fiscal 2026, the City financed the creation and preservation of 
31,946 affordable homes, including 13,121 new construction starts (the fourth highest for a fiscal year in the City’s 
history), 13,792 HPD preservation starts, and 5,033 NYCHA preservation starts through the Permanent Affordability 
Commitment Together (PACT) program. Also in Fiscal 2026, 85 percent of all HPD affordable unit starts were 
affordable to households earning less than 80 percent of Area Median Income (AMI), and 29 percent of unit starts 
were affordable to extremely low-income households earning up to 30 percent AMI, an increase of nearly 10 
percentage points over Fiscal 2025. 
<<<PAGE 32>>>
Page 20  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
In addition to producing affordable housing, the City expanded overall housing supply through the creation of non-
income-restricted homes in mixed-income developments and the advancement of land use actions to increase the 
number of homes being built. HPD supported the creation of 14,304 unrestricted housing units (market-rate units in 
mixed-income developments in which HPD provided support for the affordable portion) in Fiscal 2026, a nine percent 
increase from the prior year. Meanwhile, the City Planning Commission (CPC) reviewed land use actions that are 
projected to create 13,730 new homes and 5,138 new affordable homes in Fiscal 2026. While these figures represent 
significant decreases from the previous year, Fiscal 2025 was exceptional due to four neighborhood plans that were 
years in the making that were approved by the CPC during this period. By contrast, the homes reviewed in Fiscal 
2026 all came from individual projects, which are inherently smaller than neighborhood plans. For more information 
about city housing production, please refer to the Department of City Planning’s (DCP’s) Housing Production Snapshot.
The City also made strides this year towards ensuring that new housing development supports high-quality, well-
paying jobs, including through improvements in construction job safety and the passage of the Construction Justice 
Act. Construction-related incidents causing serious or fatal injuries decreased from 557 in Fiscal 2025 to 308 in 
Fiscal 2026. This is due in part to the Department of Buildings (DOB)’s education and enforcement efforts, including 
sharing safety materials at construction sites, reducing the number of allowable construction sites per Construction 
Superintendent in January 2024, and enforcing Local Law 196 of 2017, which mandates that workers complete 40 
hours of safety training.
Accomplishments in Fiscal 2026
• Launched faster land use review processes:  The Administration implemented Expedited Land Use Review 
Procedure (ELURP), which was approved by voters in November 2025 and will offer a streamlined public review 
process for modest housing and climate resiliency projects, reducing the review timeline from seven months to 90 
days. The CPC also advanced the Affordable Housing Fast Track by adopting new rules to establish the 12 Fast Track 
Districts—community districts that have produced the lowest share of affordable housing over the past five years, 
where new proposals for affordable housing will undergo an accelerated public review process. 
• Launched the Neighborhood Builders Fast Track,  an initiative to develop a pre-qualified roster of nonprofit 
and Minority and Women-owned Business Enterprise developers to create new affordable housing on City-owned 
sites. The Fast Track is expected to speed up the RFP selection process and cut down on pre-development time from 
18 to 10 months. HPD released a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) to establish the Neighborhood Builders list and 
announced the first three sites for this program in March 2026. 
• Advanced first neighborhood plans:  In Fiscal 2026, the City advanced neighborhood plans to create urgently 
needed housing, including permanently affordable housing, support job growth, and deliver investments in the 
White Plains Road (Bronx) and South of Prospect (Brooklyn) neighborhoods.
• Improved worker compensation through the Construction Justice Act: In January 2026, the City passed the 
Construction Justice Act (CJA), which requires certain City-subsidized affordable housing projects to meet wage 
and minimum wage requirements of $40 an hour. The City is preparing to leverage these new opportunities to 
support and protect workers in the industry. 
• Advanced Construction Safety: The Department of Buildings continued to implement initiatives to improve 
construction safety, which led to a decrease in construction-related injuries in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025. 
Construction-related incidents causing serious or fatal injuries decreased 45 percent, from 557 in Fiscal 2025 to 
308 in Fiscal 2026. Construction-related injuries related to these incidents decreased 12 percent from 363 to 320. 
DOB personnel conducted 415,481 total inspections, of which 233,988 were Enforcement Inspections, including 
for construction safety compliance. 
• Building housing on City-owned sites:  On January 1, 2026, the Administration issued Executive Order 4, 
establishing the interagency Land Inventory Fast Track (LIFT) Task Force to identify opportunities for the creation of 
25,000 new homes on City-owned land over the next ten years.
<<<PAGE 33>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: BLOCK BY BLOCK: THE HOUSING PLAN FOR A NEW ERA   |  Page 21
• Advanced development for new homes on public land: In Fiscal 2026, the City moved forward a pipeline 
of housing sites, spanning multiple stages from initial site announcements through active groundbreakings, as 
detailed below.
Site Borough Status Month Units
663-667 Flushing Ave. and 29-31 Bartlett St.  
(Broadway Triangle Site A) BK Groundbreaking Jan-26 78 
105 W. 108th St MN Groundbreaking Jan-26 84 
Eight sites in Harlem (Genesis MMN1901 Project 1) MN Groundbreaking Jan-26 54 
Eight sites in Harlem (Genesis MMN1901 Project 2) MN Groundbreaking Jan-26 27 
900 Seminole Ave. (Just Home / NYC H+H Jacobi Campus) BX Announced restart of housing project Jan-26 83 
52 W. 116th St. (Malcolm Shabazz Harlem Plaza) MN Groundbreaking Jan-26 123 
Eight sites in Central Harlem (Central Harlem NCP 1) MN Groundbreaking Feb-26 34 
Eight sites in Bed Stuy, East New York, Brownsville, and  
East Flatbush (Constellation) BK Land use actions approved Feb-26 115 
101 E. 118th St. (Timbale Terrace) MN Groundbreaking Feb-26 341 
109-43 Farmers Blvd (Neighborhood Builders) QN Announced as Future Housing Site Mar-26 50 
1337 Jerome Ave. (Neighborhood Builders) BX Announced as Future Housing Site Mar-26 55 
1727 Amsterdam Ave.  MN Land use actions approved Mar-26 200 
395 Flatbush Ave. Extension BK Land use actions approved Mar-26 1,263 
784-800 Myrtle Ave.  (Neighborhood Builders) BK Announced as future housing site Mar-26 160 
535 W 51st Street (Clinton Manor) MN Developer designated Mar-26 921 
570 Eldert Ln. (Grant Avenue Municipal Parking Lot) BK Groundbreaking Apr-26 213 
113 Beach 36th St. (Arverne East Building D) QN Groundbreaking Apr-26 230 
351 Powers Ave. BX Land use actions approved May-26 84 
 5119 Beach Channel Dr. (Edgemere Commons) QN Developer designated May-26 194 
1958 Fulton St. (Fulton Howard-West Bed Stuy MSC) BK Announced as future housing site May-26 317 
Roosevelt Ave. and Seaver Way (Willets Building 3) QN Groundbreaking May-26 221 
Seven sites in Morrisania and Claremont Village (Open Door) BX Groundbreaking May-26 37 
110 E 138th St. /63 Exterior St. (Padded Wagon) BX Certified into ULURP¹ Jun-26 537 
50 West 30th St (Chelsea Beacon) MN Groundbreaking Jun-26 131 
1240 River Ave. (River Commons) BX Groundbreaking Jun-26 328 
1743 86th St. (New Utrecht Library and Bensonhurst Parking 
Field 1) BK RFP for developer released Jun-26 255 
728 Park Ave. (Sol on Park) BX Groundbreaking Jun-26 229 
Total 6,364
¹ Certification into ULURP (the Uniform Land Use Review Procedure, or process for reviewing land use change applications) occurs when CPC and DCP confirm when an 
application is ready for public review. Certification begins the seven-month ULURP process.
<<<PAGE 34>>>
Page 22  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Affordable units created and preserved
HPD, 
NYCHA 23,370 28,050 30,185 34,286 31,946 * * Up Up
 Extremely low income (0-30% Area Median 
Income) starts (%)  HPD 22% 22% 20% 19% 29% * * Up *
 Very low income (31-50% Area Median 
Income) starts (%) HPD 19% 22% 22% 18% 27% * * Up *
Low income (51-80% Area Median Income) 
starts (%) HPD 30% 30% 25% 32% 29% * * Neutral *
Additional housing starts (unrestricted units) HPD NA 13,364 13,928 13,136 14,304 * * NA *
Homes projected through land use actions 
reviewed by the City Planning Commission DCP NA NA 20,748 64,523 13,730 * * NA *
 Affordable homes projected through land 
use actions reviewed by the City Planning Com -
mission DCP NA NA 8,559 35,181 5,138 * * NA *
Homes approved by the City Planning Commis -
sion DCP 7,809 12,473 19,872 27,746 50,227 * * Up Up
 Applicants approved for a new construction 
unit through the lottery HPD 6,585 8,903 9,305 9,869 10,633 * * Up *
Lottery units — Median time to approve an ap -
plicant (days) HPD 163 192 191 142 136 * * Down *
 Construction-related incidents with injury DOB 477 623 575 557 308 ò ò Down Down
Priority A (emergency) complaints received DOB 20,204 19,867 21,516 19,869 21,471 * * Neutral *
Priority B (nonemergency) complaints received DOB 63,279 68,480 73,547 73,641 78,294 * * Up *
Average time to respond to Priority A complaints 
(days) DOB 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.0 1.0 Up Down
Average time to respond to Priority B (nonemer -
gency) complaints (days) DOB 10.0 10.3 12.5 17.4 21.5 40.0 40.0 Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
EXPANDING AND STABILIZING HOMEOWNERSHIP
Homeownership can provide stability and wealth-building opportunities, but it is increasingly out of reach for low- and 
middle-income residents. The Administration is committed to improving access to homeownership. HPD will expand 
its Open Door program, which supports new construction affordable homeownership projects, to increase the number 
of new affordable homeownership opportunities available to New Yorkers. HPD will also launch a new program, Our 
Home, to facilitate the conversion of rental buildings into resident-controlled cooperatives.
In addition, the Administration is committed to protecting existing homeowners from the many challenges they may 
face. Block by Block outlines strategies to help homeowners stay in their homes, including creating Accessory Dwelling 
Units (ADUs) to bring in extra income, accessing financial support for mortgage payments and critical repairs, and 
protecting homeowners against scams and fraud.
In Fiscal 2026, the share of homeownership units financed decreased by two percentage points, from 8 percent to 6 
percent of total affordable housing starts, largely because HPD had preserved a particularly large number of existing 
Housing Development Fund Corporation (HDFC) and Mitchell-Lama co-op units in Fiscal 2025. However, HPD financed 
the most Open Door units (new construction homeownership) ever in Fiscal 2026, and HPD has committed to further 
increasing new construction homeownership production for Fiscal 2027 and Fiscal 2028 as part of Block by Block.
<<<PAGE 35>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: BLOCK BY BLOCK: THE HOUSING PLAN FOR A NEW ERA   |  Page 23
Accomplishments in Fiscal 2026
• Established Mayor’s Office of Deed Theft Prevention:  In April 2026, the Administration issued Executive 
Order 16, establishing the Mayor’s Office of Deed Theft Prevention, and appointed a director. This new office will 
coordinate efforts across City agencies to prevent, detect, investigate, and respond to deed theft.
• Launched ADU for You toolkit:  To facilitate the construction of ADUs, sometimes called backyard cottages, 
granny flats, or basement or attic apartments, the City developed and launched ADU for You, a suite of new 
tools that make it easier for homeowners to add an extra unit on their property, whether to downsize, house a 
relative, or bring in extra income. The new ADU for You website has a step-by-step guidebook, a budgeting tool to 
balance costs and income, an address look-up tool to check eligibility, and a pre-approved plan library that allows 
homeowners to select a design they like and get fast-tracked approvals from DOB. The City is also offering free 
technical assistance to homeowners building an ADU, available to any interested New Yorker by phone or email. 
At the same time, HPD relaunched the Plus One ADU program, which offers low-to-middle-income homeowners 
up to $395,000 in grants and low-interest loans, as well as one-on-one technical assistance to help New Yorkers 
build an ADU on their property. 
• Created new affordable homeownership opportunities and helped homeowners make critical repairs: In 
Fiscal 2026, HPD financed the creation of 321 new affordable homeownership units through Open Door, provided 
down payment assistance to help 121 low- and moderate-income households become first-time homebuyers through 
HomeFirst, assisted 65 homeowners in making critical repairs through HomeFix, and financed the preservation of 
58 homes as affordable cooperatives through the Affordable Neighborhood Cooperative Program (ANCP). In June 
2026, the City also celebrated the completion of the ANCP Morningside project, which transformed three long-
neglected buildings into permanently affordable, shared-equity cooperatives for working-class New Yorkers.
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Applications received — Senior Citizen Home -
owners’ Exemption DOF 18,853 40,453 21,550 29,820 26,729 * * Neutral *
Applications received — Disability Homeowners’ 
Exemption DOF 2,845 3,725 2,544 2,266 2,590 * * Down *
 Homeownership starts (% of total affordable 
housing starts) HPD 6% 4% 8% 8% 6% * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
REDUCING AND PREVENTING HOMELESSNESS
Homelessness in New York City is fundamentally a housing problem. The dramatic housing shortage—which is especially 
pronounced among low-cost apartments—puts tens of thousands of New Yorkers in unstable situations where they 
are at risk of homelessness. Block by Block aims to tackle this challenge from both sides by helping more New Yorkers 
remain stably housed and accelerating pathways to permanent housing for those currently experiencing homelessness. 
To that end, Block by Block proposes a model to expedite the lease-up process for households moving to affordable 
housing, expand housing first approaches to bypass shelter stays where possible, invest in wraparound care for New 
Yorkers struggling with housing insecurity, and improve collaboration across agencies and systems.
In Fiscal 2026, HPD financed the creation and preservation of 4,742 affordable units for formerly homeless individuals 
and families, including 2,546 supportive housing units. This represents HPD’s highest number of units on record for 
unhoused New Yorkers and supportive units, reflecting a 12 percent increase and a 31 percent increase, respectively, 
compared to Fiscal 2025.
<<<PAGE 36>>>
Page 24  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Accomplishments in Fiscal 2026
• Launched Supportive Housing Preservation Program (SPP): In June 2026, HPD launched SPP , a new initiative 
aimed at stabilizing and preserving the City’s vital supportive housing stock. This program establishes a dedicated 
team to manage all supportive housing preservation projects with the goal of addressing the specific needs and 
policy issues faced by the supportive housing portfolio.
• Advanced the creation of supportive housing for justice-involved individuals:  In January 2026, the 
Administration announced its commitment to advancing Just Home, a first-of-its-kind housing initiative that will 
provide 83 new affordable homes with on-site services for formerly incarcerated New Yorkers with complex medical 
needs. DOHMH also released an updated RFP for the Justice-Involved Supportive Housing (JISH) initiative to bring 
the total number of JISH units to over 350 homes. 
• Launched an interagency Supportive Housing working group: In May 2026, the Administration launched 
a working group between City Hall, the Human Resources Administration (HRA), the Department of Health and 
Mental Hygiene (DOHMH), and HPD to focus on reducing the number of vacant supportive housing apartments, as 
committed to in the Administration’s SPEED report.
• Expanded funding for legal representation in Housing Court: The Fiscal 2027 Executive Budget added $55.6 
million in new funding to the Right to Counsel (RTC) program and anti-harassment legal services, beginning in 
Fiscal 2028 and continuing annually. These new resources will increase RTC funding by more than 20 percent once 
fully implemented, allowing the City to serve additional households facing eviction in Housing Court. 
• Enhanced support for youth experiencing homelessness:  The City dedicated $3.2 million in Fiscal 2027 to 
the Department of Youth and Community Development (DYCD) Peer and Housing Navigator Services for youth 
experiencing homelessness. These services provide mentorship, coaching, and systems navigation support to help 
youth and young adults achieve stability and transition toward permanent housing. 
• Advanced the creation of supportive housing for justice-involved individuals: In January 2026, the 
Administration announced its commitment to advancing Just Home, a first-of-its-kind housing initiative that will 
provide 83 new affordable homes with on-site services for formerly incarcerated New Yorkers with complex medical 
needs. DOHMH also released an updated RFP for the Justice-Involved Supportive Housing (JISH) initiative to bring 
the total number of JISH units to over 350 homes. 
• Increased support for New Yorkers displaced by disasters:  In March 2026, the Office of Housing Recovery 
Operations (HRO) launched the Back Home Unit, a new initiative to help New Yorkers displaced by fires and other 
disasters return home more quickly and with greater support. The unit was launched alongside the Back Home 
NYC guide, an interagency resource outlining services available after a disaster, and a revamped digital vacate order 
tracker to ensure that New Yorkers can return home as soon as it is safe. 
• Launched an interagency Supportive Housing working group:  In May 2026, the Administration launched 
a working group between City Hall, the Human Resources Administration (HRA), the Department of Health and 
Mental Hygiene (DOHMH), and HPD to focus on reducing the number of vacant supportive housing apartments, as 
committed to in the Administration’s SPEED report.
<<<PAGE 37>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: BLOCK BY BLOCK: THE HOUSING PLAN FOR A NEW ERA   |  Page 25
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
® Homeless households moved into a newly 
constructed unit HPD 1,574 1,989 3,371 3,743 3,833 * * Up Up
Homeless households moved into a re-rental 
unit HPD 601 548 642 908 748 * * Up Up
 Total supportive housing units
HRA,HPD, 
& 
DOHMH 27,233 32,966 36,094 38,566 39,869 ñ ñ Up Up
Supportive housing — Median time from deter -
mination to referral (days) 
HRA,HPD, 
& 
DOHMH 100 78 59 63 65 * * Down Down
Supportive housing — Median time from deter -
mination to move-in (days) 
HRA,HPD, 
& 
DOHMH 169 153 140 146 145 * * Down Down
Supportive units started HPD 1,216 2,004 2,147 1,941 2,546 * * Up *
Units started for homeless individuals and 
families HPD 2,305 3,581 4,154 4,244 4,742 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
ACHIEVING PUBLIC EXCELLENCE
Even as New York experiences a tremendous need for additional housing, some of the barriers slowing housing creation 
lie within the government’s own control. Throughout the entire housing development process—spanning environmental 
review, financing, permitting, and tenant move-in—outdated technology, duplicative requirements, and burdensome 
requirements create unnecessary delays and bottlenecks. To identify these onerous policies and help the government 
get out of its own way, on January 1, 2026, the Administration issued Executive Order 5, launching the interagency 
SPEED Task Force to develop strategies for the more efficient production of affordable housing.
The SPEED Task Force undertook a thorough review of the delays and bureaucratic red tape slowing down affordable 
housing, soliciting feedback from hundreds of experts, City agency staff, and members of the public in order to identify 
impactful reforms. On May 13, 2026, the Task Force published the SPEED Report, which outlines a package of bold 
commitments—b acked by funding and new staff hires—that aim to improve every step of the process required to build 
affordable housing and bring tenants into quality homes.
SPEED’s reforms include staffing increases in key departments that support housing permitting and approvals, an 
overhaul of the affordable housing lottery, significant time reductions in the pre-certification of projects that require 
zoning changes, a new pilot program to accelerate the pace of placing homeless individuals into permanent housing, 
and time savings for asbestos remediation, fire alarm inspections, and Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan reviews.
Additional initiatives that advance public excellence—including the City’s new Supportive Housing working group 
aiming to reduce vacancies in supportive housing units, and NYCHA’s efforts to hasten the pace that vacant units are 
“turned-over” to new tenants—are described earlier in this chapter.
Accomplishments in 2026
• Cut red tape and accelerated process to create affordable housing: On January 1, 2026, the Administration 
issued Executive Order 5, creating the SPEED Task Force. The SPEED Report, published in May 2026, outlines a set 
of strategies that, taken together, will:
 − Reduce pre-certification for projects requiring zoning changes from two years to six months 
 − Overhaul the affordable housing lottery process and halve the time it takes to move lottery winners home, from 
over 200 days to under 100 days 
 − Cut most new construction permitting by five months; and 
 − Eliminate five months from most office-to-residential conversion permitting; among dozens of other reforms.
<<<PAGE 38>>>
Page 26  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
• Extended policies allowing affordable units to lease up faster: In April 2026, the City extended waiver policies 
to allow previously rented affordable apartments that become available again (aka “re-rentals”) to be advertised 
and leased up outside of Housing Connect, including on widely known commercial platforms and the HPD website, 
in order to speed their re-occupancy. Further tech and process changes designed to support ongoing efficiency 
gains for lease-up staff are described in the Block by Block and SPEED reports. HPD anticipates that implementing 
these initiatives will reduce lease-up timelines for affordable housing in future fiscal years.
• Launched sidewalk shed reforms: Sidewalk sheds negatively impact New Yorkers’ quality of life and increase 
the cost of operating apartment buildings. Under new sidewalk shed rules announced in March 2026, facade 
inspections will be required less frequently (especially at lower-risk buildings) and requirements for shed coverage 
over open space that is further away from buildings will be reduced, potentially reducing the number of sheds that 
are installed. NYCHA is also targeting 40 buildings for prioritized facade repair in order to efficiently take down 
longstanding sheds.
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
None.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For more information about these and additional initiatives underway, go to: 
• Block by Block:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/dam/nycgov/nyc-main/pdf/2026/block-by-block-report.pdf
• Streamlining Procedures to Expedite Equitable Development (SPEED) Report:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/dam/nycgov/nyc-main/pdf/2026/speed_report_051326.pdf
• Rental Ripoff Hearing Report:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/tenantprotection/downloads/pdf/rental-ripoffs-hearing-report-072026.pdf 
• Land Inventory Fast Track (LIFT) Tracker:  
https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/afce9e93d79847608fc846878e17db8e 
• Housing Production Snapshot:  
https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/1c9138dc24064b2e8142ff156345a719 
• ADU For You:  
https://housing.hpd.nyc.gov/adu 
<<<PAGE 39>>>
PARTNER 
AGENCIES  
& OFFICES 
Collaborating 
to Deliver 
Results
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: CHILD CARE FOR ALL |  Page 27
CHILD CARE FOR ALL
INTRODUCTION
This Administration is committed to ensuring that every child has access to free, high-quality 
child care and early childhood education services. The City’s ambitious vision for universal 
child care builds on the work of educators and providers, parents, and advocates to deliver 
an equitable and responsive child care system that meets the needs of families, children, and 
providers alike. The Administration is focusing expansion and outreach efforts on communities 
with the greatest unmet needs through targeted investments and extensive engagement with 
local communities to design a system that ensures that all children can access care regardless 
of their zip code, family income, or immigration status.
Child care and early childhood education programs engage children at a crucial stage of 
development to support their future achievement and socioemotional growth. Delivering 
universal child care is a key component of addressing the City’s affordability crisis as the 
high cost of child care puts financial strain on working families, limits the full participation 
of parents in the workforce, and drives families out of the City. This contributes to an 
out-migration of young families that negatively impacts the City’s economic activity and 
tax revenue. Child care is an investment in the City’s present and future: it helps working 
parents keep money in their pockets, grows the child care workforce while ensuring that 
providers have the compensation and workplace supports they need, and sets children up 
for a lifetime of success.
The Mayor’s Office of Child Care and Early Childhood Education (MOCCECE) is responsible 
for delivering Child Care For All, one of the Administration’s top priorities. This work 
includes setting the Administration’s child care strategy, coordinating work across more 
than a dozen City agencies to deliver a high-quality early care and education system that 
is responsive to child care providers and meets family needs, and engaging with the public. 
The Office serves as a central hub for citywide policy implementation and fosters strategic 
partnerships with all levels of government, private entities, nonprofits, and foundations. The 
Office also works closely with families and providers to ensure their voices are represented 
in the design and implementation of City policy and programs. MOCCECE was previously 
funded by philanthropic contributions, but as of Fiscal 2025, the City provides baseline 
funding for a total of five MOCCECE staff. In Fiscal 2026, the Administration funded an 
additional seven positions, for a total of 12 staff. These staff will boost the City’s efforts to 
make child care accessible by spearheading major child care initiatives and coordinating 
progress across agencies. 
There are three agencies chiefly responsible for operating and managing much of New 
York City’s child care and early education system: New York City Public Schools (NYCPS), 
the Administration for Children’s Services (ACS), and the Human Resources Administration 
(HRA). Families in New York City can enroll their children in varied child care settings—center-
based, residential-based, and school-based programs, as well as informal home-based care. 
NYCPS manages the City’s early childhood education system at both NYCPS schools and in 
partnership with contracted providers. ACS and HRA administer the Child Care Assistance 
Program (CCAP), which provides vouchers for subsidized child care. In addition, the New 
York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) promotes provider adherence 
to health and safety protections, monitoring child care centers and school-based child care 
Mayor’s Office 
of Child Care 
and Early 
Childhood 
Education
Mayor’s Office 
of Contract 
Services 
Office of 
Management 
and Budget
ACS
CUNY
DCAS
DHS
DOB
DOE
DOHMH
DOF
EDC
FDNY
HRA
OTI
SBS
<<<PAGE 40>>>
Page 28  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
programs for compliance with the New York City Health Code and other local requirements. DOHMH also oversees 
residential-based day care and school-age child care for compliance with New York State mandates under a contract 
with the New York State Office of Children and Family Services (OCFS). 
PROVIDING EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION 
NYCPS offers free or low-cost high-quality early childhood education options across three age categories: Infant/Toddler 
for qualifying families with children ages six weeks through two years, 3-K for three-year-olds, and Pre-K for four-year-
olds. These programs span a wide variety of setting types including school-based at NYCPS sites, center-based through 
contracted community-based organizations, and home-based with licensed, qualified child care providers. Seat types 
include School Day Year, which provides care for six hours and 20 minutes per day from September through June, 
Extended Day and Year, which provides care for up to 10 hours per day year-round, and City Tax Levy-funded (CTL) 
Transitional, which provides eight or 10 hours of care per day year-round, prioritized by family income. In December 
2025, NYCPS ceased administration of the City’s federal Head Start grant. Following this, contracted community-based 
organizations that were previously funded with Head Start dollars were converted to CTL Transitional seats to ensure 
continuity of care for enrolled children. The Federal Office of Head Start transitioned the Head Start funding to local 
community-based organizations. There are approximately 300 Head Start programs in New York City directly funded 
by federal grants.
In the 2026–2027 School Year, the City launched its new 2-K program, a major initiative that will provide free child 
care for two-year-olds. 2-K will serve approximately 2,000 students in its first year of operation before expanding to an 
additional 10,000 students in the 2027–2028 School Year and further increasing to reach universality for all families 
who wish to participate by the start of the 2028–2029 School Year. Services will be either full-year and full-day, running 
year-round from 8am to 6pm to support working parents, or up to six hours and 20 minutes per day September to 
June, aligning with the typical NYCPS school schedule. The launch of 2-K was planned in coordination with New York 
State, which will provide $73 million to fund the program’s first year 
and $425 million to support expansion in its second year. 
The five school districts which will receive free 2-K seats for the 
2026–2027 School Year are: 
• School District 6, Manhattan:  Washington Heights, Inwood, 
and Hamilton Heights, as well as parts of Manhattanville
• School District 10, the Bronx:  Fordham, Belmont, Norwood, 
Marble Hill, Morris Heights, Riverdale, Spuyten Duyvil, Van 
Cortlandt Village, and Kingsbridge, as well as parts of Kingsbridge 
Heights, Bedford Park, Mount Hope, Claremont-Bathgate, and 
East Tremont
• School Districts 18 and 23, Brooklyn:  Canarsie, Rugby-
Remsen Village, Brownsville, and Ocean Hill, as well as parts of 
East Flatbush-Farragut and Prospect Lefferts Garden-Wingate
• School District 27, Queens: Ozone Park, South Ozone Park, 
Richmond Hill, Woodhaven, Howard Beach, and the Rockaways, 
as well as parts of Lindenwood and Springfield Gardens North
These districts were selected based on economic need, projected 
child care demand, existing access gaps, and provider capacity and 
readiness. Families who live outside of these districts were welcome to apply, although residents of the identified 
communities are being prioritized. The first 2,000 seats are designed to serve families in high-need areas before 
scaling up the system to serve every two-year-old whose family wishes to participate in the program. In February 2026, 
NYCPS opened a Request for Information for new child care providers interested in offering 2-K and 3-K services. The 
Administration also released surveys to existing contracted early childhood providers who were interested in expanding 
current capacity or providing 2-K programs in the fall of 2026. 
106
27
23
18
<<<PAGE 41>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: CHILD CARE FOR ALL |  Page 29
Applications for 2-K opened in June 2026, with offers made in August. Families could apply through the MySchools 
online application portal, over the phone, or at one of the City’s 10 welcome centers. Services began in September 
2026, with rolling enrollment throughout the 2026–2027 School Year to accommodate students turning two at 
different points in the year. The City is partnering with existing child care providers for the launch of 2-K with a 
committed focus on maximizing provider capacity and readiness while ensuring safe and high-quality services. Data 
for the 2026–2027 School Year, which marks the inception of the 2-K program, will be available in the Fiscal 2027 
Mayor’s Management Report.
In addition to launching 2-K, the City is pursuing a major expansion of the existing early childhood education system 
to serve more children than ever before. The Administration added over 2,000 new 3-K seats in the 2026–2027 School 
Year, increasing capacity and investing capital funding to open new seats and sites in areas with significant unmet 
demand for child care. This expansion was planned in partnership with community-based child care providers and 
licensed home-based providers, which will house many of the new seats. In April 2026, the City announced plans to 
open seven new early childhood education centers for the 2026–2027 School Year at formerly vacant sites, adding 
around 240 3-K and Pre-K seats across the Bronx, Manhattan, Brooklyn, and Queens. These sites were selected 
based on historical enrollment patterns, early application data, and potential provider capacity. The Administration 
is also launching the first free, on-site child care program for City workers who are based at the David N. Dinkins 
Municipal Building and all Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) employees. This program, known 
as ‘The Little Apple,’ opened following the construction of a 4,000-square-foot child care facility and will serve 40 
children in the 2026–2027 School Year. The program is administered by a private child care provider operating under 
a contract with DCAS. 
The Administration is also making deep investments to improve and expand preschool special education services. 
In the 2026–2027 School Year, NYCPS will introduce their nationally recognized Nest, Horizon, AIMS, Path, and 
ACES programs to Pre-K classrooms in 14 school districts for the first time. These programs provide individualized 
instruction and supports designed to strengthen communication, social-emotional development, early learning, and 
independence, allowing students with disabilities to access services earlier in both inclusive and specialized classroom 
settings. NYCPS will hire hundreds of new staff members, including psychologists, social workers, speech evaluators, 
and occupational therapists, to reduce evaluation wait times, expand bilingual assessment options, and help parents 
navigate the Individualized Education Program (IEP) process. The City will also expand the Special Education Itinerant 
Teacher (SEIT) program to help young children with IEPs learn alongside their peers by placing special education teachers 
in general education preschool classrooms.
In April 2026, the City launched a first-of-its-kind interactive map and resource hub that enables families to search for 
available child care programs citywide. These platforms allow families to filter programs by location, age group, and 
cost and find information about providers including services offered, eligibility requirements, and contact information. 
The child care map and resource hub were built in response to community feedback and developed in coordination with 
parents and child care advocates, undergoing multiple rounds of engagement including focus groups and user testing. 
The City also implemented a robust multimedia outreach campaign to inform families about early childhood education 
and child care options available to them and to encourage parents to apply ahead of the 2-K, 3-K, and Pre-K application 
deadlines. This includes advertisements on LinkNYC kiosks—digital information boards around the City—in multiple 
languages as well as engagement with multilingual media and digital content creators and partnerships with faith-
based and community organizations. The City also pioneered creative and joyful methods of engaging families while 
raising awareness about the creation of 2-K, including a contest to create a jingle to be used in outreach campaigns 
and a “2K for 2-K” family-friendly two-kilometer run and walk at Fort Tryon Park in Manhattan. 
In Fiscal 2026, MOCCECE continued to oversee the Outreach and Enrollment Initiative (OEI) that was funded in 
Fiscal 2025 as part of an overall $5 million fund for outreach. The OEI funds 19 community-based organizations to 
connect families to vacant child care seats across NYCPS’ early childhood education system. The organizations are 
deeply rooted in communities with historical under-enrollment and lower socioeconomic status. They help families 
find, apply, and enroll into child care through community outreach events and one-on-one support. In the Fiscal 
2027 Executive Budget, $5 million was baselined for this initiative. MOCCECE issued a Request for Proposals in July 
2026 to update the geographic coverage based on 2026 enrollment data and socioeconomic factors, with awards 
announced in August 2026.
<<<PAGE 42>>>
Page 30  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
From the 2024–2025 School Year to the 2025–2026 School Year, Infant/Toddler student enrollment increased 17 percent 
from 6,378 to 7,449 and the utilization rate increased seven percentage points from 61 percent to 68 percent. An 
increase in awareness of Infant/Toddler services could have contributed to enrollment increases. Additionally, NYCPS 
now accepts vouchers issued by ACS to enroll in an NYCPS-contracted seat, leading to a greater number of families 
accessing these services.
Applications for 3-K programs remained mostly stable from 43,142 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 43,227 in the 
2025–2026 School Year and 3-K offers increased from 42,119 to 44,407. Offer numbers can exceed application 
numbers because NYCPS sometimes makes offers to students who did not submit applications, including to ensure 
continuity of services for known current students who did not apply. Over the same reporting period, the percent of 
families who received an offer to their first 3-K program choice increased from 64 percent to 65 percent, and the percent 
of families who received an offer to any program on their application increased from 84 percent to 85 percent. Total 
3-K enrollment decreased from 44,729 to 43,083 and the utilization rate decreased from 85 percent to 84 percent. 
Enrollment numbers can exceed application and offer numbers due to students who enroll after the application process 
has concluded. The decrease in enrollment between the 2024–2025 School Year and the 2025–2026 School Year could 
be attributed to a disinvestment in family outreach under the last Administration, as well as demographic changes 
including a decrease in birth rate and families leaving the City. The investments that the Administration is making to 
increase uptake of 3-K seats will likely have an impact in the 2026–2027 School Year.
Applications for Pre-K programs decreased slightly from 52,423 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 51,613 in the 2025–
2026 School Year and Pre-K offers decreased from 59,630 to 55,582. Over the same reporting period, the percent 
of families who received an offer to their first Pre-K program choice decreased from 84 percent to 80 percent due to 
applicants applying to programs with higher demand, and the percent of families who received an offer to any program 
on their application decreased from 96 to 93 percent due to families, on average, listing fewer program choices on 
their application. Total Pre-K enrollment decreased from 59,250 to 55,042 but the utilization rate increased from 79 
percent to 81 percent due to fewer seats being available. 
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total Infant/Toddler student enrollment NYCPS NA 6,346 10,441 6,378 7,449 6,394 8,009 NA Up
Total Infant/Toddler utilization rate (%) NYCPS NA 75% 96% 61% 68% * * NA *
Total 3-K applications NYCPS NA 39,740 41,631 43,142 43,227 * * NA *
Total 3-K offers NYCPS NA 38,586 41,654 42,119 44,407 * * NA *
Families who received an offer to their first 
program choice (%) — 3-K NYCPS NA 63% 68% 64% 65% * * NA Up
Families who received an offer to any program 
on their application (%) — 3-K NYCPS NA 84% 86% 84% 85% * * NA Up
Average travel distance from home to offer (in 
miles) — 3-K NYCPS NA NA NA NA 1.97 * * NA Down
 Total 3-K student enrollment NYCPS NA 32,361 43,957 44,729 43,678 45,454 46,818 NA Up
Total 3-K utilization rate (%) NYCPS NA 78% 84% 85% 84% * * NA *
Total Pre-K applications NYCPS NA 50,187 53,577 52,423 51,613 * * NA *
Total Pre-K offers NYCPS NA 58,762 60,787 59,630 55,582 * * NA *
Families who received an offer to their first 
program choice (%) — Pre-K NYCPS NA 83% 84% 84% 80% * * NA Up
Families who received an offer to any program 
on their application (%) — Pre-K NYCPS NA 96% 96% 96% 93% * * NA Up
Average travel distance from home to offer (in 
miles) — Pre-K NYCPS NA NA NA NA 1.10 * * NA Down
 Total Pre-K student enrollment NYCPS NA 59,687 59,250 56,950 55,042 59,250 53,117 NA Up
Total Pre-K utilization rate (%) NYCPS NA 79% 81% 79% 81% * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 43>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: CHILD CARE FOR ALL |  Page 31
ADMINISTERING THE CHILD CARE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
The New York State Child Care Assistance Program (CCAP), commonly known as the voucher or subsidy program, is 
administered by local social services districts (LSSD) and overseen by the New York State Office of Children and Family 
Services (OCFS). The program provides financial assistance to cash assistance recipients and low-income families to help 
cover the cost of child care, supporting parents and caregivers in pursuing employment, education, and greater self-
sufficiency. In New York City, ACS administers subsidies to eligible low-income families and those receiving child welfare 
services, and HRA administers subsidies to eligible families receiving cash assistance through Temporary Assistance for 
Needy Families (TANF). In Fiscal 2025, New York State allocated insufficient Child Care Block Grant funding to meet New 
York City’s needs. As a result, the City stopped issuing new low-income vouchers to eligible families and established 
a waitlist for eligible applicants. To ensure continuity of care for the 75,000 already enrolled children, the City chose 
to prioritize recertifying eligible families for care. All families that are living in shelter or temporary housing, have a 
child with special needs, or have a family income below 300 percent of the State Income Standard (SIS) will be able to 
maintain their child care assistance if they recertify on time and remain eligible. In August 2026, the City announced 
that it will cover all out-of-pocket costs for the 22,000 families receiving vouchers who previously had weekly co-pays, 
making all publicly available care free for families.
Average child care voucher enrollment rose 20 percent from 91,227 in Fiscal 2025 to 109,875 in Fiscal 2026. This 
increase was driven by a 26 percent increase in usage of non-mandated, low-income vouchers, which rose from 56,931 
to 71,499 over the last fiscal year. Despite the pause on issuing new non-mandated vouchers due to program funding 
gaps, the average number of children enrolled with these vouchers grew over the past fiscal year as a result of several 
years of sustained expansion and recertification of vouchers for those already enrolled. Mandated voucher enrollment 
for families receiving public assistance increased 13 percent from 25,932 in Fiscal 2025 to 29,386 in Fiscal 2026.
In March 2023, the City launched the MyCity portal, a one-stop shop for City services and benefits, making it easier 
for New Yorkers to interact with and access the support and services of a multitude of City agencies. A child care 
application was included in the first phase of the launch of this portal, allowing families to apply online for child care 
subsidy assistance, including vouchers and Extended Day and Year contracted seats. Through MyCity, families can screen 
themselves for eligibility for child care assistance, apply online, and track the status of their application. In February 
2024, the City enabled recertifications in MyCity so families can recertify their eligibility for child care assistance online. 
Paper applications for child care assistance remain available. 
In Fiscal 2026, 58,799 total applications were submitted through MyCity, 16 percent fewer than the 69,856 applications 
submitted in Fiscal 2025. The number of new applications declined by 51 percent from 47,622 to 23,193, while the 
number of recertification applications increased by 60 percent from 22,234 to 35,606. Due to the pause on issuing 
non-mandated low-income vouchers in Fiscal 2026, many prospective new applicants likely chose not to submit an 
application, while the number of recertification applications increased due to the City’s commitment to recertify care 
for all those previously enrolled with a voucher. Child care assistance applicants with eligibility determinations within 
30 days remained at 92 percent, the same rate as in Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average child care voucher enrollment ACS 47,535 56,978 71,039 91,227 109,875 * * Up *
Average number of children accessing child care 
services through use of a non-mandated low-
income voucher ACS 9,393 16,236 31,948 56,931 71,499 * * Up *
Average number of children accessing child care 
services through use of a mandated voucher ACS 20,714 21,897 22,803 25,932 29,386 * * Up *
Child care assistance applicants with eligibility 
determinations within 30 days (%) ACS 96% 92% 80% 92% 92% 90% 90% Neutral Up
Child care applications submitted using MyCity OTI NA 8,624 41,586 69,856 58,799 * * NA Up
– New applications OTI NA 8,624 37,834 47,622 23,193 * * NA Up
– Recertification applications OTI NA NA 3,752 22,234 35,606 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 44>>>
Page 32  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
IMPROVING QUALITY AND SUPPORTING PROVIDERS
The City incorporates educator and provider voices at every step of policy development. As the City pursues a major 
expansion of the child care system, it will need to develop sustainable pathways for workforce recruitment and 
retention while developing equitable compensation structures and expanding workforce development opportunities. 
The New York City Fiscal 2027 Executive Budget allocated $36 million to add nearly 200 staff across the Division of 
Early Childhood Education and related departments within NYCPS, as well as $40 million to raise reimbursement rates 
for contracted child care organizations for the first time since Fiscal 2021.
One way the City is supporting child care providers is by streamlining the permitting and inspection processes to 
welcome new providers into the City’s network. On March 24, 2026, the City launched an online permitting portal 
for providers to be able to complete new applications and track application status, schedule required inspections, and 
centralize communication with DOHMH, which manages the permitting and inspection of child care facilities. The portal, 
built in partnership with MOCCECE, DOHMH, and the Office of Technology and Innovation (OTI), was developed in 
response to provider feedback and underwent extensive testing by child care providers prior to its launch. The portal 
will continue to be refined and expanded in response to ongoing feedback. 
Home-based providers are a key partner in child care expansion efforts, and ensuring that home-based sites are high-
quality and safe for children and that home-based providers are compensated fairly and have access to sustainable career 
pathways are high priorities for the City. In Summer 2026, MOCCECE and Providers Organized for Power, a coalition of 
child care providers and advocates, co-hosted a citywide listening tour of home-based child care programs, incorporating 
providers as vital partners in shaping policy that meets their needs. In addition, in August 2026, the City announced 
that it will provide over $3 million in emergency microgrants for home-based child care providers facing unexpected 
emergencies that threaten to shut their doors. A Request for Proposals has been issued to select an administrator for 
the microgrant program, which is expected to officially launch by the end of Calendar 2026.
According to OCFS, total licensed center-based providers in New York City increased from 3,830 in Calendar 2024 
to 3,913 in Calendar 2025, and total licensed home-based providers increased from 6,305 to 6,849 over the same 
reporting period. These providers can serve children up through 12 years old. 
In Fiscal 2026, DOHMH conducted 8,180 initial inspections of group child care programs. While this is a slight decrease 
from the 8,392 programs inspected in Fiscal 2025 following a surge in hiring last fiscal year, the Department remains 
on track to inspect all active group child care centers. Centers’ compliance with public health standards improved—the 
proportion of child care programs that do not require reinspection increased from 82.2 percent to a five-year high of 
85.7 percent. This increase may be attributed to improved technical assistance, promoting the Health Department’s 
guidance documents, and website improvements.
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Active group child care center full inspections DOHMH 6,124 6,553 7,417 8,392 8,180 * * Up *
 Active group child care center initial inspec -
tions that do not require a compliance inspection 
(%) DOHMH 81.7% 78.6% 78.9% 82.2% 85.7% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Total licensed center-based child care providers 
(CY) OCFS 3,681 3,751 3,769 3,830 3,913 * * Neutral *
Total licensed home-based child care providers 
(CY) OCFS 5,864 5,941 5,994 6,305 6,849 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 45>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: CHILD CARE FOR ALL |  Page 33
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
None.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For more information about these and additional initiatives underway, go to: 
• MySchools Early Childhood Education Programs Application:  
https://myschools.nyc/en/
• MyCity Child Care Assistance Program Application:  
https://mycity.nyc.gov/s/apply?language=en_US&LanguageCode=en_US 
• Child Care Provider Portal:  
https://mycity.nyc.gov/provider/s/?language=en_US&LanguageCode=en_US 
• Child Care Resource Center:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/childcarehub/pages/ 
• Child Care Map:  
https://finder.nyc.gov/childcarenyc/ 
• Comprehensive Background Check Application:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/doh/business/permits-and-licenses/children-and-adolescents-childcare.page 
<<<PAGE 46>>>
Page 34  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
<<<PAGE 47>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: VISION ZERO: BUILDING A SAFER CITY  |  Page 35
PARTNER 
AGENCIES  
& OFFICES 
Collaborating 
to Deliver 
Results
INTRODUCTION
Following the concept’s origins in Sweden in 1997, New York City was the first U.S. city to 
officially adopt Vision Zero in January 2014, recognizing that traffic crashes causing serious 
injury and death are not inevitable “accidents” but preventable occurrences that can be 
systematically addressed and reduced with evidence-based interventions. Since then, the 
City has dedicated significant resources to reducing the number of traffic fatalities each 
year. New York City has served as a model for peer American cities implementing street 
safety programs, emphasizing a focus on data and interagency collaboration. Building on 
the successes of more than a decade of progress and following the data to identify new 
challenges and target areas for improvement, City agencies view traffic safety as an essential 
element of public safety and work to ensure an equitable approach to their engineering, 
enforcement, and education efforts. The City’s $4.5 billion investment in Vision Zero through 
Fiscal 2028 ensures that resources will be available to accelerate the pace of redesign and 
reconstruction of City streets, strengthen enforcement and education initiatives to deter 
and penalize unsafe driving, and promote safe walking and biking. In September 2026, the 
Mayor’s Office of Operations released Vision Zero Reimagined: A New Action Plan for Road 
Safety. This Action Plan builds on past progress and lays out a comprehensive, citywide 
strategy to eliminate traffic deaths and serious injuries over the next decade by introducing 
a new generation of tools, policies, and accountability mechanisms designed to meet the 
scale and complexity of today’s challenges.
Vision Zero serves as a model for a collaborative interagency approach to address challenging 
or complex issues, with City agencies cooperating to share best practices and implement 
proven strategies, as well as test new ones, to address changing street safety needs. The 
Vision Zero Task Force, chaired by the Mayor’s Office of Operations, leads the direction of 
related initiatives and activities, convenes bi-weekly and includes representatives from the 
New York City Police Department (NYPD), the Department of Transportation (DOT), the 
Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC), the Department of Citywide Administrative Services 
(DCAS), the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH), the Department for 
the Aging (DFTA), the Law Department (LAW), the Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB), the District Attorneys’ offices, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, the Business 
Integrity Commission (BIC), the Sheriff’s Office, NYC Health and Hospitals (H+H), New York 
City Fire Department (FDNY), Mayor’s Office of People with Disabilities (MOPD), and New 
York City Public Schools (NYCPS). The Task Force also convenes regular specialized working 
groups on data, communications and community engagement, school travel, freight mobility, 
micromobility, and the City fleet. 
Speed management has been a primary goal of Vision Zero since the initiative’s inception. 
Between Fiscal 2022 and 2026, speeding related crashes resulted in 1,245 fatalities on New 
York City streets and accounted for more than 25 percent of all road deaths. Higher speeds 
make traffic crashes more dangerous for everyone, but especially for pedestrians. Studies have 
shown that for every 10 miles per hour (MPH) of increased speed, pedestrian deaths double. 
Accordingly, Vision Zero utilizes interagency collaboration to implement the following actions: 
• Reduced the speed limit to 25 MPH citywide in November 2014 and to 20 MPH in 
targeted locations beginning in October 2024.
Office of 
Management  
and Budget
Mayor’s Office  
of Operations
District Attorneys’ 
Offices
Metropolitan 
Transportation 
Authority (MTA)
Sheriff’s Office 
Mayor’s Office 
of People with 
Disabilities 
(MOPD)
New York City 
Public Schools 
(NYCPS)
DCAS
DOHMH
DOT
NYPD
TLC
BIC
LAW
H+H
 
DFTA
DSNY
FDNY
<<<PAGE 48>>>
Page 36  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
• Creating and expanding the use of automated speed camera enforcement. 
• Utilizing data-driven and targeted high visibility enforcement of Vision Zero violations such as speeding and failure-
to-yield to pedestrians. 
• Innovating infrastructure redesigns to protect pedestrians and cyclists. 
• Conducting extensive public outreach. 
• Advocating for a legislative agenda to deter dangerous driving.
The City has recently achieved major legislative victories. New York State first granted legal authorization for speed 
camera violations to be issued around the clock at all camera locations in the summer of 2022 in response to the rise in 
speeding incidents and traffic fatalities during the COVID-19 pandemic. Recently, the City’s speed camera program was 
extended by the State through Fiscal 2030. This expansion delivered critical safety benefits to New Yorkers, including 
decreases in speeding and injuries from speed-related crashes. Additionally, the “Stop Super Speeders Act” legislation 
passed the State government in May 2026, which gives New York City the authority to design and implement a 
pilot program which requires the temporary installation of Intelligent Speed Assist (ISA) technology in the vehicles of 
drivers who receive at least 16 speed camera tickets in one year. ISA is a cutting-edge safety system that limits vehicle 
acceleration once a vehicle exceeds the local speed limit. DOT is currently working to implement both of these life-
saving tools.
Calendar 2025 had among the fewest number of traffic deaths ever recorded in New York City, dating back to when 
record-keeping began in 1910. Additionally, overall traffic fatalities are down 31 percent since the launch of Vision 
Zero in 2014. Citywide traffic fatalities increased slightly from 214 in Fiscal 2025 to 218 in Fiscal 2026. Increases in 
fatalities were specifically seen in motorized two-wheel vehicles, which rose from 63 to 73, and traditional bicyclists, 
which rose from four to six. These increases continue to underscore the vulnerability of these riders. At the same time, 
fatalities of electric bicyclists rose from 14 to 21, stand-up scooter operators rose from four to nine, and off-road vehicle 
operators increased from two to five. Finally, fatalities of motorcyclists decreased from 27 to 23, and pedestrian deaths 
decreased from 111 to 105.
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total traffic fatalities DOT 266 270 277 214 218 ò ò Down Down
Pedestrian fatalities DOT 115 121 119 111 105 * * Neutral Down
Traditional bicyclist fatalities DOT 10 10 4 4 6 * * Down Down
Motorized two-wheel vehicle fatalities DOT 73 86 100 63 73 * * Down Down
— Electric bicycle DOT 9 20 20 14 21 * * Up Down
— Stand-up scooter DOT 5 8 12 4 9 * * Up Down
— Moped DOT 18 19 31 16 15 * * Down Down
— Motorcycle DOT 33 34 31 27 23 * * Down Down
— Off-road vehicle DOT 8 5 6 2 5 * * Down Down
— Other DOT 0 0 0 0 0 * * Neutral Down
Motor vehicle occupant fatalities DOT 68 53 54 36 34 * * Down Down
— Car DOT 51 37 29 23 19 * * Down Down
— SUV DOT 14 14 22 10 12 * * Down Down
— Other motor vehicle DOT 3 2 3 3 3 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 49>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: VISION ZERO: BUILDING A SAFER CITY  |  Page 37
STREET DESIGN
DOT works to make streets safer by implementing designs that simplify complex intersections, discourage speeding, 
slow down turns, install more bicycle lanes, increase visibility of pedestrians and cyclists, and shorten pedestrian crossing 
distances at Vision Zero priority locations. In Fiscal 2026, DOT installed 25 percent more speed humps and cushions, up 
from 228 in Fiscal 2025 to 286. However, DOT installed just 87 Leading Pedestrian Intervals (LPIs) in Fiscal 2026, down 
from 316 in Fiscal 2025. This decrease is attributed to an overall decrease in requests and fewer remaining high-crash 
locations and corridors suitable for installation. DOT has installed LPIs at over 7,000 intersections citywide, and many 
remaining signalized intersections are less suitable because they may have no pedestrian vehicle conflict, multiple signal 
phases, or short signal cycles.
DOT installed 36 percent fewer bicycle lane miles, down from 52.3 miles in Fiscal 2025 to 33.6 miles in Fiscal 2026. 
This includes 30 percent fewer protected bicycle lane miles, which decreased from 27.9 miles to 19.8 miles. Bicycle lane 
projects typically move through a planning and design phase in the fall and winter months, followed by a construction 
phase that typically begins in the spring and peaks between July and December. In Fiscal 2026, an early start to winter 
brought the prior construction season to a close earlier than usual, and significant snow accumulation through March 
delayed the start of the following construction season. Other implementation barriers remained consistent over the 
last two years, including project delays due to community and political concerns, contractor and material availability, 
signal implementation timelines, limited design staff capacity, and expanded project scope related to concrete, sidewalk, 
and accessibility requirements. The forthcoming Streets Plan will outline how DOT will address these challenges by 
prioritizing the resumption of stalled projects, expanding proven street designs, and introducing new programs and 
commitments to deliver more transformative and ambitious street redesigns in the coming years.
ENFORCEMENT
Data-driven law enforcement that deters dangerous driving behavior helps to reduce traffic fatalities and serious injuries. 
Consequently, Vision Zero agencies, including NYPD and TLC, continued to focus on enforcing especially hazardous 
driving violations including speeding, failure to yield to pedestrians, signal violations, improper turns, and the use 
of hand-held devices while driving. During Fiscal 2026, the number of total Vision Zero-related moving summonses 
issued increased two percent, up from 417,324 summonses in Fiscal 2025 to 424,604 summonses in Fiscal 2026. 
NYPD issued 413,259 Vision Zero summonses, including 89,489 speeding summonses, a decrease of eight percent 
from Fiscal 2025, and 43,117 failure-to-yield-to-pedestrian summonses, an increase of 10 percent from Fiscal 2025. 
TLC focused its enforcement efforts in Fiscal 2026 on unlicensed activity and corporate accountability which resulted 
in a 19 percent decrease in patrol summonses issued directly to drivers. These are typically associated with Vision Zero 
initiatives and, as a result, Vision Zero-related moving summonses issued by TLC decreased 20 percent to 11,345 in 
Fiscal 2026, down from 14,219 in Fiscal 2025.
NYPD seized 5,892 illegal motorcycles and 14,484 mopeds/scooters in Fiscal 2026, down one percent and 13 percent 
from Fiscal 2025, respectively. NYPD’s ongoing seizure operations are leading to higher rates of compliance by riders, 
reducing the number of illegal devices on the roadways. The decrease in seizures is also due partially to resource 
reallocation by the NYPD to conduct citywide ghost license plate enforcement operations. Additionally, the City 
strengthened upstream enforcement against the source of these illegal devices in August 2026 by issuing cease-and-
desist orders to 42 online retailers demanding they immediately stop selling illegal motorized devices to customers in 
New York City’s 175 ZIP codes. These orders target the operation of specific illegal devices on public streets: motorized 
stand-up scooters weighing more than 100 pounds or capable of traveling faster than 20 MPH, e-bikes equipped 
with electric motors larger than 750 watts or capable of speeds exceeding 25 MPH, and seated mopeds that do not 
have and display a valid Vehicle Identification Number (VIN). Dangerous illegal e-bikes and stand-up e-scooters have 
proliferated in recent years largely through online sales. These illegal devices account for more than half of all rider 
fatalities involving e-bikes and stand-up scooters. 
Along with these direct enforcement efforts, NYPD also convenes a weekly TrafficStat meeting where borough police 
commanders and Vision Zero partners come together to discuss current traffic safety trends, enforcement, education, 
and engineering. 
<<<PAGE 50>>>
Page 38  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUTREACH AND EDUCATION 
In October 2025, DCAS hosted its 10th annual Fleet Safety Forum, which attracted 450 attendees who participated in 
multiple panel discussions and interacted with 20 vendors in the fleet space. The event began with DCAS’s significant 
announcement of the City’s plan to require ISA on all 7,000 light and medium non-emergency vehicles. DCAS then 
issued the second annual safe driver awards to five individuals representing the Department of Buildings, the Department 
of Environmental Protection, the Department of Parks and Recreation, the New York City Housing Authority, and DOT. 
Each driver received nearly perfect telematics scorecards from the Fleet Office of Realtime Tracking (FORT) while driving 
over 7,500 miles in the year. Panel discussions at the forum provided information on a variety of topics, including the 
latest updates pertaining to Super Speeder legislation and truck safety technologies. Speakers included industry experts 
from Families for Safe Streets, Together for Safer Roads, the FIA Foundation, the National Safety Council, and the Korey 
Stringer Institute. Finally, attendees stepped outside and compared the sightlines between a conventional truck cab 
and a high-visibility cab to see the potential implications for pedestrians and cyclists.
In Fiscal 2026, DCAS continued a compliance push toward the defensive driving training requirement established 
under Executive Order 39 of 2024, with over 10,000 City operators participating in online and in-person defensive 
driving initiatives. Additionally, in partnership with DOE, DCAS rolled out a school bus operator training program that 
focuses on safety for school buses operating in busy urban environments. In the final six weeks of Fiscal 2026, over 
8,000 school bus operators successfully completed the course, fulfilling a commitment made in the School Bus Safe 
Fleet Transition Plan from January 2024. 
Additionally, Executive Order 53 of 2020 requires DCAS to promote safe fleet design for public and commercial fleets. 
Accordingly, DCAS is pursuing a series of critical safety initiatives, including ISA, truck sideguards, telematics, barring 
hands-free phone use, and addressing visual obstructions for truck operators. In Fiscal 2026, DCAS promoted the 
benefits of these safety efforts at the Fleet Forward Conference in New Jersey, the National Safety Council’s Safety 
Congress and Expo in Colorado, Fleet Vision International in London, and events held by the New York Metropolitan 
Transportation Council and NAFA Fleet Management Association. It is critical that fleets throughout the country share 
best practices and utilize the same common-sense safety and risk reduction initiatives.
FLEETS
In July 2025, DCAS announced the expansion of the ISA program to an additional 200 vehicles. These additions bring 
the cumulative program total to 700 vehicles across 21 agencies and 23 vehicle types, making it the largest active ISA 
fleet in the country. This round of installations also included the Administration for Children’s Services becoming the 
first agency fleet to be completely retrofitted with ISA technology. Similarly, DCAS made a major announcement in 
October 2025 regarding the future of the ISA program: every light and medium non-emergency vehicle will be equipped 
with the technology. When complete, this program will constitute over 7,000 vehicles across nearly every agency in 
the City fleet. That announcement was followed in May 2026 by a commitment to budget $2.7 million over the next 
three fiscal years to retrofit all 4,000 non-emergency trucks with pedestrian turn warnings, effectively mandating that 
technology as well. By the end of Fiscal 2026, DCAS achieved 1,000 vehicles retrofitted with ISA and over 800 with 
pedestrian turn alerts. City drivers have now used ISA in over nine million miles of fleet operation. 
In August 2025, DCAS received the Green Cross Award for Excellence in Safety from the National Safety Council 
(NSC). One of the most prestigious safety program awards, this honor was celebrated during a ceremony at DCAS’s 
Fleet Safety Forum. Then, in April 2026, DCAS was honored a second time as the recipient of Fleet Vision International 
award for Best Safety Strategy. 
In Fiscal 2026, DCAS continued to utilize telematics through FORT to reduce unsafe driving behavior. DCAS was pleased 
to contribute to the announcement to include ISA Super Speeder language in the State budget and looks forward to 
working with DOT and others on the law’s implementation across New York City.
<<<PAGE 51>>>
COLLABORATING TO DELIVER RESULTS: VISION ZERO: BUILDING A SAFER CITY  |  Page 39
Throughout Fiscal 2026, as cited earlier, DCAS Fleet continued to push for compliance with Executive Order 39 of 
2024 (EO39), which required a variety of safety initiatives in the City’s largest contracted fleets. DCAS created a safety 
training that was purpose built for trucking fleets affected by EO39, and that training is now live and available for 
contractors to utilize.
DATA-DRIVEN SOLUTIONS
Although the burden of traffic injuries and fatalities in the City is well documented, many questions remain about 
the evolving causes of crashes and the impact of prevention measures. By collecting and analyzing data, Vision Zero 
agencies continuously improve their understanding of roadway incidents to support better decision making. Vision Zero 
also aims to leverage and learn from external partners who study road safety. In November 2025, the Vision Zero Data 
Working Group, with the Department of Design and Construction’s (DDC’s) Town+Gown:NYC initiative, held its annual 
Research on the Road symposium and announced a winner for the Vision Zero Research Award. The annual Research 
on the Road symposium connects City agency staff with external research partners, such as academic institutions, to 
promote and advance Vision Zero goals.
Performance Indicators Agency
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total Vision Zero-related moving summonses 
issued
NYPD/
TLC 361,357 418,901 383,970 417,324 424,604 * * Up Up
— NYPD NYPD 342,858 404,188 371,006 403,105 413,259 * * Up Up
— TLC TLC 22,249 17,575 12,271 14,219 11,345 * * Down Up
 Speed humps and cushions installed DOT 262 231 443 228 286 250 250 Neutral Up
Older Adult Centers partnering with DOT to 
increase feedback on street safety improvements DOT 203 222 214 334 340 * * Up *
Bicycle lane miles installed DOT 62.3 47.7 63.7 52.3 33.6 50.0 50.0 Down *
— Protected DOT 33.2 25.9 32.9 27.9 19.5 * * Down Up
Leading pedestrian intervals installed DOT 801 320 313 316 87 300 300 Down Up
 Intersections with accessible pedestrian 
signals installed (CY) DOT 273 605 950 772 652 900 900 Up Up
City employees trained in defensive driving 
citywide DCAS 7,054 7,054 11,552 8,037 10,887 7,000 7,000 Up Up
Motorcycle seizures NYPD 7,395 10,409 7,714 5,960 5,892 * * Down *
Moped/Scooter seizures NYPD 2,773 5,509 20,456 16,674 14,484 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
*Target goals (FY25 & FY26) for Intersections with accessible pedestrian signals installed were reported in calendar year (CY24 & CY25) given that this metric was set 
by the Federal Court Remedial Order as part of a lawsuit against the New York City Department of Transportation from the American Council of the Blind of New York, 
INC. According to the lawsuit, New York City violated federal law by failing to systematically implement audible and tactical pedestrian signals that would make its 
pedestrian routes equally usable, and safer, for people who are blind, deaf-blind, or low-vison. 
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Previously published data related to traffic fatalities was amended to reflect the most up to date data. This can 
occur when a victim of a traffic crash is hospitalized for an extended period and does not succumb to their injuries 
until months after the date of the crash. Data changes include:
 − The Fiscal 2024 data for ‘Total traffic fatalities’ was changed from 276 to 277.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Total traffic fatalities’ was changed from 211 to 214.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Pedestrian fatalities’ was changed from 110 to 111.
 − The Fiscal 2024 data for ‘Motorized two-wheel vehicle fatalities’ was changed from 99 to 100. 
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Motorized two-wheel vehicle fatalities’ was changed from 60 to 63. 
<<<PAGE 52>>>
Page 40  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
 − The Fiscal 2024 data for ‘Stand-up scooter fatalities’ was changed from 11 to 12. 
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Stand-up scooter fatalities’ was changed from 4 to 3.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Moped fatalities’ was changed from 14 to 16.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Motor vehicle occupant fatalities’ was change from 37 to 36.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘SUV fatalities’ was changed from 11 to 10.
• The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Speed humps and cushions installed’ was changed from 224 to 228.
• The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Total bicycle lane miles installed’ was changed from 51.8 to 52.3.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Vision Zero Reimagined: A New Action Plan for Road Safety: 
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/visionzero/downloads/pdf/Vision-Zero-Reimagined-2026.pdf
• Vision Zero Website:  
www.nyc.gov/visionzero 
• Vision Zero View:  
http://www.nycvzv.info/ 
• Leading Causes of Injury and Deaths in NYC: 
https://a816-dohbesp.nyc.gov/IndicatorPublic/data-features/leading-causes/
• Vision Zero Fleet Safety:  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/vision-zero-and-nyc-fleet.page
• Green Wave: A Plan for Cycling in New York City: 
https://www1.nyc.gov/html/dot/downloads/pdf/bike-safety-plan.pdf
• Accessible Pedestrian Court Order:  
https://dralegal.org/case/american-council-of-the-blind-of-new-york-inc-v-the-city-of-new-york/
• Federal Court Orders New York City to Install Thousands of Accessible Crosswalk Signals Over the Next 10 Years: 
https://dralegal.org/featured/federal-court-orders-new-york-city-to-install-thousands-of-accessible-crosswalk-
signals-over-the-next-10-years/
• New York City Intelligent Speed Assistance Pilot Evaluation: 
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/nyc-intelligent-speed-assistance-pilot-evaluation-2024-oct.
pdf 
• 2025 NYC Safe Fleet Transition Plan Update: 
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/2025/nyc-safe-fleet-transition-plan-update-2025.pdf
<<<PAGE 53>>>
MAIN DIVIDERS  |  Page 41
Agency 
Chapters
<<<PAGE 54>>>
Page 42  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 55>>>
Public Safety and  
Access to Justice
<<<PAGE 56>>>
Public Safety and  
Access to Justice
New York City  
Police Department p 45
Fire  
Department p 57
New York City 
Emergency Management p 67
Department of 
Correction p 75
Law  
Department p 101
Department of 
Investigation p 107
City Commission on 
Human Rights p 113
Department of 
Probation p 85
Civilian Complaint 
Review Board p 93
Office of Administrative 
Trials and Hearings p 121
Business Integrity 
Commission p 129
<<<PAGE 57>>>
NEW YORK CITY POLICE 
DEPARTMENT Jessica S. Tisch, Commissioner
NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 45
WHAT WE DO
Established in 1845, the New York 
City Police Department (NYPD) 
is responsible for policing an 
8.8-million-person city. It performs 
a wide variety of public safety, law 
enforcement, traffic management, 
counterterrorism, and emergency 
response roles. NYPD is divided into 
major bureaus for enforcement, 
investigations, and administration. 
It has 78 patrol precincts with patrol 
officers and detectives covering the 
entire City. The Department also 
operates 12 transit districts to police 
the subway system and its nearly 
four million daily riders, and nine 
police service areas (PSAs) to patrol 
New York City Housing Authority’s 
public housing developments, which 
are home to more than 275,000 
residents. Additionally, uniformed 
civilians serve as traffic enforcement 
agents on the City’s busy streets 
and highways, as school safety 
agents, protecting public schools 
and the nearly one million students 
who attend them, and as police 
communications technicians, serving 
within the 911 emergency radio 
dispatch center.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
NYPD units are staffed, as always, in accordance with an equitable, need-based 
allocation of police personnel. Each of the City’s 78 precincts, 12 Transit Bureau 
districts, and nine Housing Bureau PSAs have unique community and operational 
needs within their geographic boundaries, including factors such as high-profile 
locations, transient working and visitor populations, and community and quality-
of-life concerns. These considerations, along with crime statistics and the volume 
of 911 calls requiring a police response, inform the equitable deployment of police 
resources to address the unique problems and challenges faced by communities 
within their neighborhoods.
Additionally, the Department employs a multi-faceted deployment strategy 
that integrates crime reduction, precision policing, advanced technology, and 
community engagement to address all crime conditions that impact public safety 
and quality-of-life in New York City. The Department has positioned police officers 
on streets and subway stations citywide to make the most effective use of its 
personnel. These deployments stem from data-driven analysis and community 
intelligence gathered from patrol officers’ daily interactions, as well as field 
intelligence officers and Quality of Life Teams (Q-Teams). Q-Teams are composed 
of officers from across the NYPD who undergo specialized training on how to 
address non-emergency, quality-of-life concerns in partnership with communities 
to address matters and safety issues.
The Department is committed to promoting fair and inclusive practices by 
prioritizing the needs, voices, and perspectives of employees and communities. 
The NYPD promotes awareness, education, and outreach efforts to improve the 
quality-of-life in the workplace and beyond by fostering cultural understanding.
The Department will continue to prioritize and adapt its police operations to 
respond to the City’s most vulnerable communities and address the public safety 
concerns of everyday New Yorkers. These community-first and precision policing 
efforts, coupled with strategic analysis and oversight, ensure fair and equitable 
policing and safety.
<<<PAGE 58>>>
Page 46  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Manage public safety programs related to criminal activity.
Goal 1a Reduce the incidence of crime.
Goal 1b Prevent terrorist attacks.
Goal 1c Respond to police emergencies quickly.
Goal 1d Reduce the incidence of youth crime.
Goal 1e Reduce incidence of transit crime.
SERVICE 2 Manage public safety programs related to traffic safety.
Goal 2a Reduce the incidence of traffic collisions, injuries and fatalities.
SERVICE 3 Manage public safety programs related to quality-of-life.
Goal 3a Reduce the incidence of quality-of-life violations.
SERVICE 4 Ensure courteous, professional and respectful interactions with the community.
Goal 4a Improve police/community relations.
<<<PAGE 59>>>
NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 47
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Manage public safety programs related to criminal activity.
Goal 1a Reduce the incidence of crime.
Continuing the trend of crime reduction since Fiscal 2024, the City recorded more than two percent fewer major felony 
crimes in Fiscal 2026 than in Fiscal 2025, down from 121,750 to 118,866, with reductions in four of the seven major 
crimes. Most notably, murder decreased approximately 20 percent, from 339 in Fiscal 2025 to 272 in Fiscal 2026, 
surpassing the decade low achieved in Fiscal 2019. These declines also include an approximately nine percent decrease 
in robbery, from 15,607 to 14,263, and an approximately nine percent decrease in burglary, from 13,107 to 11,888, 
along with a seven percent decrease in grand larceny auto, from 13,924 to 12,906. Major felony crime in housing 
developments also declined nearly four percent, from 5,818 in Fiscal 2025 to 5,594 in Fiscal 2026. Grand larceny was 
the only property crime that increased, up less than one percent, from 47,239 to 47,413. 
Rape increased approximately nine percent, from 1,958 in Fiscal 2025 to 2,128 in Fiscal 2026. This figure reflects a 
broadened definition adopted in Fiscal 2026 that aligns with the full New York State Penal Law, including cases without 
physical force; prior years were revised accordingly, so year-over-year comparisons should account for this change. This 
standardized definition includes all forms of rape under the Penal Law, not only those involving physical force. It also 
includes cases where the victim was legally unable to consent for other reasons, such as incapacitation or age. Rape 
related to domestic violence increased approximately 16 percent, from 898 to 1,042; domestic violence-related murder, 
by contrast, decreased approximately 12 percent, from 61 to 54. Shooting incidents fell 16 percent, from 804 to 673, and 
gang-motivated incidents dropped nearly 21 percent, from 258 to 204. The Department has continued the momentum 
of previous years, with a focus on proven strategies: intelligence-based policing, effective and precise deployment, and 
community cooperation.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Major felony crime 119,748 127,393 126,212 121,750 118,866 ò ò Neutral Down
 – Murder and non-negligent manslaughter 465 424 359 339 272 ò ò Down Down
 – Rape 1,603 1,552 1,554 1,958 2,128 ò ò Up Down
 – Robbery 16,178 17,047 17,324 15,607 14,263 ò ò Down Down
 – Felonious assault 25,034 26,959 28,850 29,576 29,996 ò ò Up Down
 – Burglary 14,793 15,054 13,142 13,107 11,888 ò ò Down Down
 – Grand larceny 49,227 51,455 49,938 47,239 47,413 ò ò Neutral Down
 – Grand larceny auto 12,448 14,902 15,045 13,924 12,906 ò ò Neutral Down
 Major felony crime in housing developments 5,859 6,062 6,117 5,818 5,594 ò ò Neutral Down
Crime related to domestic violence - Murder 56 71 70 61 54 * * Neutral Down
Crime related to domestic violence - Rape 712 660 719 898 1,042 * * Up Down
Crime related to domestic violence - Felonious assault 10,104 10,692 11,502 11,971 12,274 * * Up Down
Hate crimes 573 546 729 618 591 * * Neutral Down
Gang motivated incidents 1,021 804 323 258 204 * * Down *
® Gun arrests 6,426 6,837 6,129 5,331 5,119 * * Down *
® Major felony crime arrests 42,607 49,830 54,871 55,230 55,658 * * Up *
® Narcotics arrests 10,172 13,273 17,351 21,306 21,516 * * Up *
Crime in progress calls 280,489 297,236 294,367 297,116 291,843 * * Neutral *
911 calls (total) 7,612,535 7,949,885 7,997,267 7,492,892 7,512,484 * * Neutral *
Shooting incidents 1,461 1,140 932 804 673 * * Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 60>>>
Page 48  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1b Prevent terrorist attacks.
The Department places a high priority on the prevention and detection of terrorist acts. NYPD’s Critical Response Command, 
a sub-unit of the Counterterrorism Division, leads this frontline defense with dedicated personnel trained and equipped 
to respond swiftly to active shooters and other attacks. To increase the readiness of all first responders, the Department 
conducts in-depth training with other City agencies, maintains partnerships at the local, State, and Federal levels, and offers 
education to private entities. In Fiscal 2026, total counterterrorism training hours for members of the service decreased 
approximately two percent to 92,181, while training hours for non-members increased by nearly 9,000 to 10,389, as more 
private entities adopted identification and response procedures to protect their employees from active shooter incidents. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Counterterrorism training — Members (hours) 137,101 177,647 143,612 94,116 92,181 * * Down *
– Non-members (hours) 12,411 12,412 8,432 1,430 10,389 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Respond to police emergencies quickly.
In Fiscal 2026, the end-to-end average response time to all crimes in progress increased approximately three percent to 15 
minutes and 21 seconds, compared to Fiscal 
2025. This was driven by an approximately 
five percent increase in the end-to-end 
average response time to critical crimes in 
progress to 9 minutes and 38 seconds, and 
an approximately seven percent increase for 
non-critical crimes in progress to 30 minutes 
and 25 seconds. The end-to-end average 
response time to serious crimes in progress 
decreased approximately three percent to 12 
minutes and 35 seconds. Average response 
times, which measure only the dispatch and 
travel portion of response times, followed 
a similar pattern. The average response 
time to critical crimes in progress increased 
approximately six percent to 7 minutes and 
15 seconds, and the average response time 
to non-critical crimes in progress increased 
approximately eight percent to 27 minutes 
and 34 seconds, while the average response 
time to serious crimes in progress decreased approximately four percent to 10 minutes and 19 seconds. Response times 
increased even as the total number of crimes in progress calls decreased slightly in Fiscal 2026, from 297,116 to 291,843, 
suggesting that the increase was not driven by higher call volume. The Department constantly reevaluates strategies to 
reduce response times and ensure operations run effectively at all levels.
Fiscal 2026 911 voice calls end-to-end average response times 
for crimes in progress (minutes:seconds)
9:38
30:25
12:35
Travel Dispatch 911 Calltaker
Processing 
911 Pickup
(ring+queue) 
15:21
Non-critical crimes in progress
Serious crimes in progress
Critical crimes in progress
All crimes in progress
<<<PAGE 61>>>
NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 49
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
End-to-end average response time to all crimes in progress 
(minutes:seconds) 12:44 14:24 15:23 14:53 15:21 * * Up Down
End-to-end average response time to critical crimes in progress 
(minutes:seconds) 8:26 9:02 9:24 9:10 9:38 * * Up Down
End-to-end average response time to serious crimes in progress 
(minutes:seconds) 11:47 13:09 13:31 13:00 12:35 * * Neutral Down
End-to-end average response time to non-critical crimes in prog -
ress (minutes:seconds) 22:02 26:20 29:47 28:28 30:25 * * Up Down
Average response time to all crimes in progress (dispatch and 
travel time only) (minutes:seconds) 10:24 12:00 12:59 12:30 12:56 * * Up Down
 Average response time to critical crimes in progress (dispatch 
and travel time only) (minutes:seconds) 6:06 6:38 7:00 6:49 7:15 ò ò Up Down
Average response time to serious crimes in progress (dispatch and 
travel time only) (minutes:seconds) 9:36 11:00 11:16 10:46 10:19 * * Neutral Down
Average response time to non-critical crimes in progress (dispatch 
and travel time only) (minutes:seconds) 19:12 23:30 26:53 25:35 27:34 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1d Reduce the incidence of youth crime.
NYPD’s school safety agents are committed to fostering a safe and secure educational atmosphere to ensure the well-
being of students, faculty, and the entire school community. Accomplishing this requires a holistic approach that starts 
with safe school corridors. Youth Coordination Officers (YCOs), who are trained to work with young people and connect 
them with community resources, patrol designated routes before and after school hours to increase visibility and prevent 
criminal incidents. Youth response teams, which deploy citywide in response to spikes in youth crime, particularly violent 
incidents, supplement this strategy by reacting quickly to affected areas. School safety agents guard the safety of students, 
faculty, employees, and visitors within and around school grounds, secure points of ingress and egress, and scan entries. 
The Department operates several programs outside of school hours to provide outlets for youth to gather and engage in 
constructive and educational experiences in safe spaces.
In Fiscal 2026, major felony crime in schools decreased approximately three percent, from 368 to 356, compared to Fiscal 
2025. Youth arrests for major felonies decreased just over three percent to 5,349 in Fiscal 2026, marking the first decline 
in five years, since arrests began climbing from 2,291 in Fiscal 2021. Despite this year’s decrease, arrests remain near their 
recent peak: the Fiscal 2025 total of 5,536 was the highest in at least the last 16 years, more than double the Fiscal 2021 
figure. The one homicide recorded in Fiscal 2026 was an upgraded assault complaint that occurred in a previous year, with 
the victim succumbing to his injuries. Felony assault increased by 25 incidents compared to Fiscal 2025, with a noticeable 
increase in assaults against adults as opposed to youth-on-youth assaults. Reductions in the other five categories—rape, 
robbery, burglary, grand larceny, and grand larceny auto—are largely attributable to securing vulnerabilities through precision 
deployment and patrol by school safety agents and youth response teams. The Department will continue its teamwork with 
the Department of Education to provide a safe environment for all students and staff. Crimes committed against youth, 
regardless of location, increased approximately one percent compared to Fiscal 2025. The Department continues to partner 
with agencies and communities to protect youth and reduce harm to youth.
<<<PAGE 62>>>
Page 50  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 School safety — Major felony crime 346 402 404 368 356 ò ò Neutral Down
– Murder 0 0 0 2 1 * * Up Down
– Rape 15 11 6 17 10 * * Down Down
– Robbery 36 28 33 40 24 * * Down Down
– Felonious assault 151 136 139 130 155 * * Neutral Down
– Burglary 37 65 34 30 27 * * Down Down
– Grand larceny 102 156 187 143 134 * * Up Down
– Grand larceny auto 5 6 5 6 5 * * Neutral Down
School safety — Other criminal categories 1,758 1,683 1,494 1,392 1,185 * * Down Down
– Other incidents 5,965 6,779 5,792 5,111 5,006 * * Down Down
® Youth arrests for major felonies 2,946 4,189 5,212 5,536 5,349 * * Up *
Crime committed against youths (7 major felonies) 4,037 4,529 5,177 5,623 5,676 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1e Reduce the incidence of transit crime.
To maintain transit safety for the more than four million riders daily on 25 train lines, the Department utilizes a multi-
pronged strategy of visibility, precision deployment during hours and locations of high traffic, and enforcement. In Fiscal 
2026, major felony crime in the transit system decreased approximately two percent, from 2,215 to 2,176. Summonses 
returnable to the Transit Adjudication Board increased approximately one percent to 181,143, while arrests within the 
transit system increased six percent to 27,465. The Department continues to pursue crime reductions in the transit system 
to keep New Yorkers moving safely.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Major felony crime in transit system 2,185 2,322 2,259 2,215 2,176 * * Neutral Down
Transit Summonses 88,112 139,402 174,500 179,542 181,143 * * Up *
Arrests within the transit system NA 8,705 14,545 25,833 27,465 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Manage public safety programs related to traffic safety.
Goal 2a Reduce the incidence of traffic collisions, injuries and fatalities.
The Department utilizes education, engineering, and enforcement to ensure the safe travel of vehicles, micro-mobility 
devices, traditional bicyclists, and pedestrians. Total traffic fatalities increased from 214 to 218 in Fiscal 2026, compared to 
Fiscal 2025, driven by increases among bicyclists and riders of motorized two-wheel vehicles. Pedestrian fatalities decreased 
from 111 to 105, and motor vehicle occupant fatalities decreased from 36 to 34. Fatalities among traditional bicyclists 
and riders of motorized two-wheel vehicles increased, from four to six and from 63 to 73, respectively, underscoring the 
continued vulnerability of these road users. The safe operation of micro-mobility devices requires observing the same traffic 
laws required of a motor vehicle operator. In Fiscal 2026, the Department conducted approximately 50 percent more traffic 
safety outreach events than in Fiscal 2025, from 1,632 to 2,450, in an effort to educate the public about road hazards 
and conditions. The Department will continue to utilize all available tools to reduce hazards to pedestrians and operators 
of all vehicles.
<<<PAGE 63>>>
NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 51
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Driving while intoxicated (DWI) related fatalities 22 11 34 19 20 * * Neutral Down
® DWI arrests 2,870 3,636 3,517 3,835 4,201 * * Up *
Moving violation summonses (000) 543 652 645 673 638 * * Up *
– Summonses for hazardous violations 450,530 527,691 496,487 528,193 511,014 * * Up *
Traffic Safety Outreach Events 542 496 985 1,632 2,450 * * Up *
Parking violations 8,926,905 8,809,102 8,294,420 8,233,896 8,185,437 * * Neutral Up
Total traffic fatalities 266 270 277 214 218 * * Down Down
— Pedestrians 115 121 119 111 105 * * Neutral Down
— Traditional bicyclists 10 10 4 4 6 * * Down Down
— Motorized two-wheel vehicles 73 86 100 63 73 * * Down Down
— Motor vehicle occupants 68 53 54 36 34 * * Down Down
Summonses for e-bikes NA 6,218 6,120 13,371 18,508 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Manage public safety programs related to quality-of-life.
Goal 3a Reduce the incidence of quality-of-life violations.
The NYPD quality-of-life teams (Q-Teams) have been deployed across all boroughs to answer and resolve quality-of-life 
complaints that are received via NYC311 and 911. With specific trainings, dedicated resources such as Community Link, 
and an updated 311 mobile application, Q-Teams are working diligently to reduce the negative impact these complaints 
have on all New Yorkers.
In Fiscal 2026, the Department received 1,735,003 service requests via NYC311, an increase of approximately six percent 
from 1,643,239 in Fiscal 2025. Total quality-of-life summonses correspondingly increased approximately 13 percent, from 
196,102 to 220,802. Summonses issued for unreasonable noise increased nearly 16 percent, from 3,696 to 4,272. Q-Teams 
have continued attending community council meetings and tenant association meetings to listen and collaborate with 
community members directly. In Fiscal 2026, Q-Teams attended 2,338 community meetings citywide, an increase of 
approximately 131 percent from 1,014 in Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Tow removals 50,885 50,491 41,593 47,541 46,963 * * Neutral Up
 Quality-of-life summonses 67,408 134,580 179,673 196,102 220,802 * * Up *
– Unreasonable noise summonses 1,568 3,979 4,076 3,696 4,272 * * Up *
– Public consumption of alcohol summonses 18,239 50,874 63,505 57,653 56,070 * * Up Up
– Public urination summonses 2,129 6,772 9,904 10,003 10,187 * * Up Up
Community meetings 1,240 1,237 1,256 1,014 2,338 * * Up *
311 service requests 1,372,141 1,381,037 1,452,859 1,643,239 1,735,003 * * Up Down
Individuals contacted by a DOHMH Co-Response Team 750 840 506 528 580 625 700 Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 64>>>
Page 52  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 4 Ensure courteous, professional and respectful interactions with the community.
Goal 4a Improve police/community relations.
Delivering police service in a courteous, professional, and respectful manner is a fundamental Department principle, 
beginning with ensuring members of the service provide enhanced customer service.
The Department conducts training in the Police Academy to ensure the best possible service from the start, and continues 
training non-recruit members throughout the year to introduce new topics, maintain proficiency, and prepare advancing 
members with position-specific skills. In Fiscal 2026, training classes for Fair and Impartial Policing and Active Bystandership 
within Law Enforcement (ABLE) increased approximately 55 percent and 19 percent, respectively, compared to Fiscal 2025. 
Crisis Intervention Team training hours for uniformed members decreased approximately 22 percent in Fiscal 2026, to 
108,478 hours, following a correction to the previously reported Fiscal 2025 figure. 
The Department measures customer service through random audits of uniformed and civilian personnel who are not 
told they are being tested, using the results to correct deficiencies and improve personnel-public interaction. While the 
overall number of Courtesy, Professionalism, and Respect tests conducted in Fiscal 2026 did not change substantially, the 
percentage of tests rated ‘below standard’ decreased approximately 31 percent, attributable to improved training and 
corrective measures.
In January 2021, NYPD released its Disciplinary Matrix which provides an overview of the goals of internal discipline, defines 
the presumptive penalties for specific acts of substantiated misconduct by officers and outlines additional factors to be 
considered when assessing a disciplinary penalty. Pursuant to a memorandum of understanding with the Civilian Complaint 
Review Board (CCRB), the Department publishes letters justifying instances when the Police Commissioner makes a final 
determination in a disciplinary matter that is less severe than what the Disciplinary Matrix would assign. The Department 
issued 57 deviation letters in Fiscal 2026, the most in any fiscal year since this process began. Of these 57, only two 
downward deviations originated with the Department. For the remaining 55, the Police Commissioner concurred with a 
proactive recommendation from CCRB to downwardly deviate disciplinary recommendations based on mitigating factors 
including: past performance, initial instance of discipline, severity of the offense, and intensity of the situation.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Fair and Impartial Policing training (hours) (Uniformed members) 17,731 15,421 18,286 16,919 26,271 * * Up Up
Crisis Intervention Team training (hours) (Uniformed members) 12,192 40,960 18,616 138,556 108,478 * * Up Up
Trauma-informed sexual assault victim interview/investigations 
training (hours) (uniformed and civilian members) 720 9,368 11,087 35,816 35,588 * * Up Up
Active Bystandership within Law Enforcement (ABLE) 71,806 69,769 18,578 13,657 16,303 * * Down Up
 Courtesy, Professionalism and Respect testing 3,577 4,407 4,852 4,719 4,721 * * Up *
– Exceeds standard 0 1 1 0 0 * * Down Up
– Meets standard 3,554 4,353 4,548 4,298 4,431 * * Up *
– Below standard 23 54 303 421 290 * * Up Down
Civilian complaints against members of the service 3,483 4,700 5,644 5,575 5,679 * * Up Down
Deviation Letters 6 2 2 0 57 * * Up Down
Use of force (UOF) incidents 9,189 11,102 13,075 14,561 14,330 * * Up Down
Uniform Members of Service (UMOS) injured from UOF incidents 4,354 5,226 5,723 5,542 5,162 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 65>>>
NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 53
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cases commenced against the City in state and federal court 1,776 1,877 2,037 2,830 2,514 * * Up *
Payout ($000) $208,702 $298,214 $333,223 $415,981 NA * * NA Down
Violations admitted to or upheld at the Office of Administra -
tive Trials and Hearings (%) 58% 50% 47% 40% 42% * * Down *
Workplace injuries reported (uniform and civilian) 13,931 9,666 9,386 10,038 9,911 * * Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 298,230 340,694 411,160 461,972 449,785 * * Up *
CORE facility rating 100 99 94 82 93 * * Down Up
Calls answered within 30 seconds (%) 99% 99% 97% 97% 99% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Response to 311 Service Requests (SRs) FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Percent meeting time to close – Residential Noise - Loud Music/
Party (0.3 days) 84% 93% 98% 83% 94% * * Neutral *
Percent meeting time to close – Residential Noise - Banging/
Pounding (0.3 days) 99% 97% 98% 92% 94% * * Neutral *
Percent meeting time to close – Noise - Street/Sidewalk (0.3 days) 99% 98% 99% 96% 97% * * Neutral *
Percent meeting time to close – Blocked Driveway - No Access 
(0.3 days) 99% 96% 94% 87% 92% * * Neutral *
Percent meeting time to close – Commercial Noise (0.3 days) 99% 98% 99% 97% 97% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $5,881.3 $6,310.8 $6,627.3 $6,870.2 $6,909.1 $6,893.3 $6,556.4 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $92.5 $95.9 $98.9 $95.7 $94.0 $96.2 $100.8 Neutral
Personnel (uniformed) 34,825 33,797 33,812 33,614 34,018 35,025 34,975 Neutral
Personnel (civilian) 15,135 15,117 14,588 14,293 14,326 15,548 14,892 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $779.0 $951.4 $1,093.3 $1,105.1 $965.7 $929.4 $778.2 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $162.2 $90.2 $145.1 $171.6 $379.3 $395.3 $325.5 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 66>>>
Page 54  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $6,176.2 $6,049.5 
        001 - Operations $2,130.1 $314.2 All
        002 - Executive Management $409.7 $421.6 All
        003 - School Safety $284.3 $299.9 1a, 1b, 1c, 4a
        004 - Administration - Personnel $313.1 $313.4 All
        006 - Criminal Justice $75.6 $79.7 1a, 1c, 2a, 3a, 4a
        007 - Traffic Enforcement $168.9 $162.6 1a, 2a, 3a, 4a
        008 - Transit Police $366.9 $357.3 1a, 1b, 1c, 3a, 4a
        009 - Housing Police $212.8 $209.4 1a, 1c, 3a, 4a
        010 - Patrol $1,766.7 $1,708.6 1a
        011 - Detective Bureau4 NA $771.5 1a, 1d, 1e, 4a
        012 - Chief of Department4 NA $957.8 1a, 1c, 1d, 1e, 2a, 3a, 4a
        016 - Communications $129.8 $136.6 1c, 4a
        020 - Intelligence and Counterterrorism $250.5 $252.8 1b
        024 - Community Affairs Bureau $67.7 $64.0 4a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $694.0 $859.7 
        100 - Operations $56.1 $83.3 All
        110 - Detective Bureau4 NA $7.4 1a, 1d, 1e, 4a
        120 - Chief of Department4 NA $5.6 1a, 1c, 1d, 1e, 2a, 3a, 4a
        200 - Executive Management $135.2 $80.8 All
        300 - School Safety $4.2 $4.9 1a, 1b, 1c,1d, 4a
        400 - Administration $423.2 $627.7 All
        500 - Communications $58.9 $32.0 1c, 1d, 4a
        600 - Criminal Justice $0.3 $0.5 1a, 1c, 2a, 3a, 4a
        700 - Traffic Enforcement $9.5 $10.1 1a, 2a, 3a, 4a
        800 - Patrol, Housing, and Transit $2.0 $2.7 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 3a, 4a
        900 - Intelligence and Counterterrorism $4.6 $4.6 1b
Agency Total $6,870.2 $6,909.1 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.     4This UA originated in Fiscal 2026.      “NA” Not Available
<<<PAGE 67>>>
NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 55
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS ! 
• Commissioner Jessica Tisch continues to serve as Commissioner of the New York City Police Department. 
• As of this report, NYPD is now reporting ‘Rape’ as a critical indicator and as one of the seven major felony crimes, added 
to Goal 1a. This indicator reflects all instances of rape, across all degrees, under the New York State Penal Law, including 
cases where the victim was legally unable to consent for reasons other than physical force, such as incapacitation 
or age, as well as cases involving the use of force. This addition replaces ‘Forcible rape,’ which reflected only cases 
involving the use of force.
• As a result of the above addition, previously published data for the indicator ‘Major Felony Crime’ has been revised 
from Fiscal 2022 through Fiscal 2025. ‘Major Felony Crime’ in Fiscal 2022 has been revised from 119,313 to 119,748, 
in Fiscal 2023 from 126,929 to 127,930, in Fiscal 2024 from 125,728 to 126,212, and in Fiscal 2025 from 121,723 to 
121,750.
• The indicator ‘Crimes related to domestic violence—Rape’ in Goal 1a was erroneously changed to ‘Crimes related 
to domestic violence—Forcible rape’ and the indicator ‘School safety—Major felony crime—Rape’ in Goal 1d was 
erroneously changed to ‘School safety—Major felony crime—Forcible rape,’ and appeared as such in the Fiscal 2025 
Mayor’s Management Report and the Fiscal 2026 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report. Both indicator names 
have been reverted to their correct names in this publication. None of the underlying data needed to be revised as any 
changes were only made to the indicator names.
• Previously published data related to traffic fatalities was amended to reflect the most up to date data. This can occur 
when a victim of a traffic crash is hospitalized for an extended period and does not succumb to their injuries until 
months after the date of the crash. Data changes include:
 − The Fiscal 2024 data for ‘Total traffic fatalities’ was changed from 276 to 277.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Total traffic fatalities’ was changed from 211 to 214.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Pedestrian fatalities’ was changed from 110 to 111.
 − The Fiscal 2024 data for ‘Motorized two-wheel vehicle fatalities’ was changed from 99   to 100.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Motorized two-wheel vehicle fatalities’ was changed from 60 to 63.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Motor vehicle occupant fatalities’ was change from 37 to 36.
• The previously published data for the indicator ‘Crisis Intervention Team Training (hours)’ in Fiscal 2025 has been revised 
from 26,554 to 138,566 after a calculation error was discovered.
• The value for ‘Payout’ in Agencywide Management is not available because starting in Fiscal 2026, values will only be 
reported annually as final audited data in the Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR) rather than as an initial 
estimate in the Mayor’s Management Report (MMR). Historically, initial figures for this indicator were provided by the 
Law Department in the MMR, while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
in the following PMMR. OMB uses a different process and timeline to determine the finalized audited amount disbursed 
by the City, prompting this change to clarify reporting.
<<<PAGE 68>>>
Page 56  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to: 
• Crime Prevention/Crime Statistics (reports updated regularly): 
http://www1.nyc.gov/site/nypd/stats/crime-statistics/crime-statistics-landing.page
• Clearance Rates:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/nypd/stats/reports-analysis/clearance.page
For more information on the Agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/nypd
<<<PAGE 69>>>
FIRE DEPARTMENT  
Lillian Bonsignore, Commissioner
FIRE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 57
WHAT WE DO
The Fire Department (FDNY) responds 
to fires, public safety and medical 
emergencies, hazardous events, 
natural disasters and terrorist acts 
to protect the lives and property of 
New York City residents and visitors. 
The Department advances fire 
safety through its fire prevention, 
investigation and education 
programs, and contributes to the 
City’s homeland security efforts. The 
Department responds to more than 
300,000 fires and non-fire-related 
emergencies and more than 1.6 
million medical emergencies per year.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
FDNY equitably protects the lives and property of all citizens and visitors in New 
York City, as first responders to more than 1.9 million fires, medical and other 
emergencies and myriad other incidents on average each year. FDNY makes 
significant contributions to the safety of all New Yorkers through the delivery of 
emergency services and public safety initiatives. The Department’s efforts have 
focused on reducing the number of serious fires and fire-related deaths, which 
have historically had a disproportionate impact on low-income neighborhoods 
and communities of color. The Department regularly reviews response times to 
life-threatening medical emergencies across the City and develops strategies to 
reallocate resources to reduce response times in communities with higher-than-
average response times. 
FDNY is also committed to cultivating and sustaining a diverse and inclusive 
workplace for all its employees, as outlined in its Diversity, Equity and Inclusion 
(DEI) Vision, Mission, and Goals Statement. These objectives are supported by its 
Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Office through training, counseling and 
education, reviewing reasonable accommodation requests, and the investigation 
of potential FDNY EEO violations. The EEO Office also ensures compliance with 
trainings including Sexual Harassment Prevention and Everybody Matters: EEO and 
Diversity & Inclusion. Informative posters such as those notifying employees of their 
rights under the City’s EEO policy, anti-hate and discrimination laws, and protocols 
around single sex facilities are also displayed in the workplace. Finally, recently, 
FDNY launched the fifth edition of its biennial multimedia storytelling project, We 
Are FDNY. Featuring 24 members of the Department across the diverse range of 
bureaus/units, the campaign highlights unique and diverse stories from members 
that reflect all titles. We Are FDNY posters are displayed in all FDNY firehouses, 
Emergency Medical Service (EMS) stations, training academies, dispatch and civilian 
offices. Monthly newsletters, social media posts and workstation desktops also 
feature these unique stories.
The Department also facilitates an inclusive work culture by partnering with 50 
employee affiliated organizations to amplify DEI initiatives, showcasing Agency 
diversity through poster campaigns, commemorating heritage holidays and 
months, creating quiet spaces in the workplace for the practice of religious faith 
and wellness activities, and conducting trainings regarding unconscious bias and 
inclusive leadership. 
The Department, through its Community Affairs Unit, works to proactively educate, 
engage, and empower communities to prevent emergencies. By focusing on 
outreach, education, training, and relationship-building, the unit helps reduce 
risk, increase preparedness, and build trust with the diverse populations the 
Department serves. The Department also facilitates an inclusive work culture by 
promoting diversity, equity and inclusion (DEI) which is integral to every FDNY 
objective, especially firefighter recruitment. FDNY maintains a separate website 
for recruitment, JoinFDNY, which received over 800,000 page views in Fiscal 2026.
<<<PAGE 70>>>
Page 58  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Protect lives and property from fire hazards and other emergency conditions.
Goal 1a Reduce the risk associated with fire incidents.
Goal 1b Promptly respond to fires and other emergencies.
Goal 1c React effectively to fires and other emergencies to minimize damage to persons and property.
SERVICE 2 Respond to medical emergencies.
Goal 2a Promptly respond to medical emergencies.
Goal 2b Provide high quality emergency medical care.
<<<PAGE 71>>>
FIRE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 59
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Protect lives and property from fire hazards and other emergency conditions.
Goal 1a Reduce the risk associated with fire incidents.
FDNY reduces the risk associated with fires through its inspection, investigation and education programs. Fire inspections 
are designed to reduce the loss of life and property from fires through two separate and distinct inspection programs: one 
is carried out by firefighters and fire officers, the other is carried out by civilian fire prevention personnel. In Fiscal 2026, 
completed inspections performed by civilian fire prevention personnel decreased more than two percent, while violation 
orders issued and corrected both increased four percent when compared to Fiscal 2025. Summonses issued decreased by 
12 percent, from 238 in Fiscal 2025 to 209 in Fiscal 2026. A reduction of 29 summonses over the course of one fiscal year 
by itself does not meaningfully demonstrate increased compliance or any material change in enforcement outcomes. This 
minor reduction in summons volume may have been caused by several factors such as inspector staffing or field deployment.
Once a fire has occurred, the Bureau of Fire Investigation conducts an investigation to identify the cause and analyze any 
trends and risk factors. These trends and factors are then targeted by FDNY’s Fire Safety Education Unit (FSEU), the Bureau 
of Fire Prevention and Community Engagement and External Affairs personnel with the goal of preventing or limiting 
the occurrence of future incidents. Investigations result in a variety of findings, including that a fire was set intentionally. 
The Bureau of Fire Investigation found that in Fiscal 2026, there was a 27 percent decrease in intentionally set fires when 
compared to the previous fiscal year. The FSEU held 2,371 presentations in Fiscal 2026, which is a 12 percent decrease from 
Fiscal 2025. The FSEU shifted to more targeted outreach with a focus on neighborhoods identified as having the highest 
fire risk. Identifying and interacting with these communities resulted in fewer but more impactful events. Additionally, in 
the immediate aftermath of a fire, the FDNY sets up a fire safety education table in the affected neighborhood and works 
with local community stakeholders to facilitate trainings and increase awareness.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed risk-based inspections performed by uniformed 
personnel 41,727 43,543 42,199 39,776 37,500 * * Down *
Completed mandatory inspections performed by uniformed 
personnel 31,262 32,869 33,351 32,129 33,242 * * Neutral *
 Completed inspections performed by civilian fire prevention 
personnel 149,300 153,691 188,097 205,294 200,151 161,000 161,000 Up Up
Hazard complaints resolved within one day (%) 91% 91% 94% 94% 92% 85% 85% Neutral Up
Violation orders issued 29,456 36,572 38,943 47,522 49,216 * * Up *
Violation orders corrected 25,521 30,192 31,314 39,903 41,345 * * Up *
Violation orders corrected (%) 76% 85% 80% 84% 84% * * Neutral Up
Summonses issued 220 179 217 238 209 * * Neutral *
 Investigations 5,815 5,856 5,335 5,353 5,303 * * Down *
Intentionally set fires 1,153 1,058 919 802 587 * * Down Down
® Fire and life safety education presentations 4,661 3,488 2,319 2,693 2,371 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 72>>>
Page 60  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1b Promptly respond to fires and other emergencies.
In Fiscal 2026, structural residential fires increased six percent while 
structural non-residential fires remained at levels similar to Fiscal 2025. 
There were 16,091 non-structural fires, a 14 percent increase over Fiscal 
2025. Due to effective public messaging campaigns instructing residents to 
store their e-bikes, scooters, and other lithium-ion battery powered devices 
outside, the Department has seen an increase in lithium-ion battery fires 
outside of structures, as opposed to inside. During this same reporting 
period, malicious false alarms decreased 20 percent from 21,966 in Fiscal 
2025 to 17,670 in Fiscal 2026. The Department has encouraged fire units 
to use more specific radio codes for investigations, searches, and other 
assistance, meaning that some incidents previously counted as malicious 
false alarms may now be classified differently. 
In Fiscal 2026, dispatch and travel time to all life-threatening medical 
emergencies for ambulances and fire companies combined increased by 
one minute and 28 seconds compared to Fiscal 2025, from seven minutes 
and 45 seconds to nine minutes and 13 seconds. This metric includes calls 
that are not initially classified as life-threatening but then become life-
threatening. The responses to these calls are measured using the entire 
dispatch and travel time, regardless of whether the call was initially life-
threatening.  When the duration of the calls are measured using the time 
the call was upgraded to a life-threatening medical emergency, the average 
dispatch and travel time for ambulances and fires companies combined is 
seven minutes and 28 seconds in Fiscal 2026. The average response time 
to life-threatening medical emergencies by ambulances (dispatch and travel) increased by one minute and 43 seconds 
over the past fiscal year to 10 minutes and 32 seconds, a 20 percent increase from Fiscal 2025. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Structural residential fires 19,299 19,666 19,544 20,180 21,475 ò ò Up Down
 Structural non-residential fires 4,088 4,238 4,465 4,887 4,903 ò ò Up Down
Structural fires per 100,000 people 265 278 289 302 318 * * Up Down
 Non-structural fires 13,595 12,594 12,260 14,140 16,091 ò ò Up Down
Fire company responses 1,101,689 1,133,831 1,209,136 1,176,232 1,135,702 * * Neutral *
Emergency incidents requiring one or more fire companies 627,045 654,924 693,005 682,466 686,185 * * Neutral *
Non-fire emergencies 232,639 244,235 246,668 249,851 268,738 * * Up Down
Malicious false alarms 19,949 21,524 22,599 21,966 17,670 * * Neutral Down
Medical emergencies (fire companies only) 336,718 363,617 388,652 371,517 357,308 * * Neutral Down
End-to-end average response time to structural fires 
(minutes:seconds) 5:01 5:02 5:02 5:06 5:05 * * Neutral Down
 Average response time to structural fires (FDNY dispatch 
and travel time only) (minutes:seconds) 4:32 4:31 4:33 4:35 4:38 4:14 4:14 Neutral Down
Average response time to all emergencies by fire companies 
(FDNY dispatch and travel time only) (minutes:seconds) 5:41 5:48 5:52 5:51 6:02 * * Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Structural, Nonstructural, 
and Nonﬁre, Nonmedical Emergencies
Nonﬁre, Nonmedical Emergencies
Nonstructural Fires
Structural Fires
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
249,851
25,067
14,140
268,738
26,378
16,09113,595
23,327
232,639
12,594
23,901
244,235 246,668
12,260
24,009
<<<PAGE 73>>>
FIRE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 61
Goal 1c React effectively to fires and other emergencies to minimize damage to persons and property.
A serious fire has an alarm level of “All Hands” and above. Serious fires require a response of at least 60 FDNY personnel. 
There were 2,249 serious fires in Fiscal 2026, a three percent increase from Fiscal 2025, while multiple alarm fires increased 
24 percent, going from 177 in Fiscal 2025 to 220 in Fiscal 2026. The overall percentage of serious fires that became multiple 
alarm fires increased two percentage points to 10 percent. Serious fires and multiple alarm fires have increased due to the 
increasing age of the building stock and a lack of investment and upgrades to address the increasing demand on electrical 
circuits. Electrical fires within walls can spread quickly and remain undetected for some time. The winter of Fiscal 2026 
had periods of extreme cold, as well as multiple snowstorms, which resulted in more fires caused by space heaters, electric 
blankets, and stoves. Additionally, heavy snow accumulation and frozen fire hydrants can cause delays in responses that 
may result in fires with increased alarm levels. In June 2026, the City experienced two heatwaves. Fighting fires in elevated 
temperatures requires additional resources to relieve firefighters from increased physical demands at the scene of the fire. 
Additional resources used to relieve units can result in additional alarms. Life-threatening fire scene injuries decreased ten 
percent this fiscal year and non-life-threatening fire scene injuries increased nine percent when compared to Fiscal 2025. 
Civilian fire fatalities increased from 76 to 82 between Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Serious fires NA 2,096 1,898 2,175 2,249 * * NA Down
Multiple alarm fires NA 205 158 177 220 * * NA Down
Serious fires reaching second alarm or higher (%) NA 10% 8% 8% 10% * * NA Down
Non-life-threatening fire scene injuries 959 837 771 823 900 * * Neutral *
Life-threatening fire scene injuries 74 61 58 60 54 * * Down *
 ® Civilian fire fatalities 92 102 74 76 82 ò ò Down Down
Civilian fire fatalities per 100,000 people 1.04 1.19 0.89 0.92 0.99 * * Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Respond to medical emergencies.
Goal 2a Promptly respond to medical emergencies.
The overall incidence of medical emergencies decreased 
less than one percent between Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 
2026 to 1.606 million, including an almost two percent 
decrease in life-threatening medical emergencies. FDNY 
has been experiencing a decrease in staffing, which 
results in a decrease in ambulance tours. Average 
ambulance in-service hours decreased five percent, 
while medical emergencies remained about the same. 
Some hospitals have removed their ambulances from 
the 911 system, 11 in Fiscal 2026, which further 
reduces the supply of ambulances. Additionally, EMS 
staffing decreased more than usual this year, as many 
Emergency Medical Technicians (EMTs) were called off 
the promotional exam list to become firefighters. 
In Fiscal 2026, combined dispatch and travel time for ambulances and fire companies responding to life-threatening medical 
emergencies rose one minute and 28 seconds, from 7:45 to 9:13, compared to Fiscal 2025. Looking at just ambulance 
responses, measured from the original dispatch, the average dispatch and travel time to life-threatening medical emergencies 
rose one minute and 43 seconds over the past fiscal year, to 10 minutes and 32 seconds—a 20 percent increase from Fiscal 
2025. Both figures include calls that were not initially classified as life-threatening but were later upgraded to that status, 
with the full dispatch-and-travel time counted from the original dispatch rather than from the moment of upgrade. When 
calculated instead from the moment of upgrade, the average combined dispatch and travel time for ambulances and fire 
companies falls to 7:28 in Fiscal 2026.
Travel 
Dispatch 
EMS Calltaker Processing
EMS Pickup (ring+queue)
Calltaker Processing 
911 Pickup (ring+queue) 
11:55
Fiscal 2026
End-to-end combined response time to life-threatening medical emergencies 
by ambulances & ﬁre companies (minutes:seconds)

<<<PAGE 74>>>
Page 62  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
To address increasing response times, the Department has continued to add Paramedic Response Units (PRUs). By design, 
PRUs treat more patients during their tours than conventional Advanced Life Support (ALS) ambulances because they are 
not required to be involved in patient transport. This has led to an increase in the percentage of ALS incidents responded 
to by an ALS capable unit. The Behavioral Health Emergency Assistance Response Division (B-HEARD) program is being 
reestablished to increase capacity to respond to low acuity mental health calls. By increasing the number of BHEARD units, 
the Department is able to provide specialized and more clinically-appropriate care for mental health patients, which allows 
other ambulance units to more efficiently respond to other call types. The Department has also created a dedicated resource 
allocation unit to increase the number of vehicles in service by optimizing staff assignments. And, lastly, the Department also 
moved to a borough-based command structure to allow leadership to provide oversight to smaller areas, which improves 
their ability to react quickly and dynamically to changing conditions in the field.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Life-threatening medical emergency incidents 564,412 605,140 633,361 620,467 610,771 * * Neutral *
Emergency medical incidents (ambulances) 1,531,959 1,613,316 1,644,446 1,615,531 1,605,979 * * Neutral *
Average number of medical emergencies per day 4,179 4,380 4,430 4,361 4,241 * * Neutral Down
Medical emergencies resulting in patient transport 959,114 1,009,613 1,029,292 1,001,801 918,431 * * Neutral *
Average turnaround time for ambulances at hospitals 
(minutes:seconds) 36:17 38:10 40:50 40:40 40:25 * * Up Down
Average ambulance in-service hours per day 8,891 8,686 8,653 8,572 8,109 * * Neutral *
End-to-end combined average response time to life-
threatening medical emergencies by ambulances and fire 
companies (minutes:seconds) 9:30 9:50 10:03 10:21 11:55 * * Up Down
End-to-end average response time to life-threatening 
medical emergencies by ambulances (minutes:seconds) 10:17 10:43 10:52 11:21 13:09 * * Up Down
End-to-end average response time to life-threatening 
medical emergencies by fire companies (minutes:seconds) 9:01 9:24 9:37 9:42 10:41 * * Up Down
 Combined average response time to life-threatening 
medical emergencies by ambulances and fire companies 
(FDNY dispatch and travel time only) (minutes:seconds) 6:31 7:03 7:23 7:45 9:13 6:00 6:00 Up Down
Combined average response time to life-threatening medi -
cal emergencies by ambulances and fire companies, with 
calls starting at indication of life-threatening emergency 
(FDNY dispatch and travel time only) (minutes:seconds) 6:11 6:31 6:29 6:46 7:28 * * Up Down
Average response time to life-threatening medical emer -
gencies by ambulances (FDNY dispatch and travel time 
only) (minutes:seconds) 7:26 7:59 8:16 8:49 10:32 6:55 6:55 Up Down
Average response time to life-threatening medical emer -
gencies by fire companies (FDNY dispatch and travel time 
only) (minutes:seconds) 5:35 5:50 5:56 5:52 6:03 4:38 4:38 Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 75>>>
FIRE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 63
Goal 2b Provide high quality emergency medical care.
In Fiscal 2026, FDNY responded to 26,992 reports of patients in cardiac arrest or choking (segment one incidents), 
representing an almost five percent decrease when compared to Fiscal 2025. The percentage of confirmed cardiac arrest 
patients that had a return of spontaneous circulation (revived) upon arrival at the hospital was 16 percent in Fiscal 2026. A 
subset of these incidents is classified as bystander-witnessed cardiac arrest, which occurs when someone is with the patient 
who can recognize that the patient is in arrest, call for help and possibly perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), often 
resulting in better outcomes. The percentage of witnessed cardiac arrest patients with a return of spontaneous circulation 
upon arrival at the hospital was about 27 percent in Fiscal 2026. This represents a four-percentage point decrease from 
31 percent in Fiscal 2025. The Department has increased efforts to train more community members in CPR. The goal of 
EMS is not only to resuscitate patients in cardiac arrest but also to treat patients with acute life-threatening issues, thereby 
preventing cardiac arrest. This fiscal year a substantial number of life-saving interventions were performed by EMS including 
9,957 asthma patients receiving nebulized medications, 2,036 allergic reaction patients receiving epinephrine injections, 
and 1,015 patients with stroke or myocardial infarction (STEMI) being transported to specialized treatment centers. In Fiscal 
2026, the number of STEMI patients transports to specialty cardiac hospitals increased 15 percent. Overall, over 141,000 
patients received life-saving interventions by EMS personnel in Fiscal 2026. The number of critical patients who received 
advanced life supporting treatments increased six percent from 133,789 in Fiscal 2025 to 141,701 in Fiscal 2026. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Segment one incidents (cardiac arrest and choking) 30,736 30,306 30,038 28,320 26,992 * * Down *
Cardiac arrest patients revived (%) NA 20% 20% 17% 16% * * NA Up
Witnessed cardiac arrest patients revived (%) NA 34% 37% 31% 27% * * NA Up
Asthma patients who received nebulized medication 9,023 10,475 10,508 10,850 9,957 * * Neutral *
Allergic reaction patients who received Epinephrine 1,341 1,572 1,675 2,117 2,036 * * Up *
Severe stroke patients transported to specialty stroke 
hospitals 1,199 1,269 1,427 1,511 1,396 * * Up *
STEMI patients transported to specialty cardiac hospitals 1,514 1,063 883 882 1,015 * * Down *
 Critical patients who received advanced life supporting 
treatments 111,948 126,056 117,269 133,789 141,701 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 76>>>
Page 64  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Payout ($000) NA $47,387 $35,061 $61,834 NA * * NA Down
FDNY workers who sustained service-connected injuries (total 
agency-wide) 8,964 9,055 8,311 7,978 8,206 * * Down Down
Firefighters/fire officers who sustained service-connected injuries 7,192 7,204 6,225 6,306 6,756 * * Neutral Down
Firefighters/fire officers who sustained service-connected injuries 
resulting in medical leave 3,931 3,917 3,585 3,261 3,793 * * Neutral Down
Firefighters/fire officers who sustained service-connected burn 
injuries 245 231 190 189 230 * * Down Down
Firefighters/fire officers who sustained service-connected burn 
injuries resulting in medical leave 183 176 131 154 198 * * Neutral Down
EMS workers/officers who sustained service-connected injuries 1,696 1,793 1,627 1,576 1,378 * * Down Down
Civilian workers who sustained service-connected injuries 76 58 68 79 67 * * Neutral Down
Firefighter/fire officer service-connected injury rate (per 10,000 
responses) 81.4 63.5 54.8 53.6 59.0 * * Down Down
Apparatus collision rate (per 10,000 responses) 4.3 4.2 3.7 4.0 4.5 * * Neutral Down
Ambulance collision rate (per 10,000 responses) 9.2 9.0 9.5 8.8 9.5 * * Neutral Down
Average time from inspection request until inspection — Fire 
alarm inspections (days) 60 40 25 35 45 * * Down Down
Average time from inspection request until inspection — Range -
hood inspections (days) 5 8 7 7 8 * * Up Down
Violations admitted to or upheld at the Office of Administrative 
Trials and Hearings (%) 88% 92% 96% 96% 96% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 99% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 99% 99% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
Completed requests for interpretation 5,866 10,938 16,845 18,650 10,847 * * Up *
Average wait time to speak with a customer service agent 
(minutes:seconds) 37:16 40:48 59:21 39:59 18:43 * * Down Down
CORE facility rating 100 96 NA 100 100 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $2,486.0 $2,552.2 $2,719.8 $2,843.8 $2,842.8 $2,821.6 $2,717.0 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $98.9 $108.9 $115.0 $142.3 $134.7 $108.4 $108.4 Up
Personnel (uniformed) 10,615 10,672 10,652 11,123 10,888 11,294 11,294 Neutral
Personnel (civilian) 6,345 6,398 6,537 6,446 6,029 6,321 6,466 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $465.5 $504.3 $534.8 $569.6 $564.0 $546.9 $549.3 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $119.2 $261.1 $174.8 $160.1 $171.8 $257.2 $229.7 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the "Indicator Definitions" at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          "NA" - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 77>>>
FIRE DEPARTMENT  |  Page 65
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $2,489.7 $2,492.3 
        001 - Executive Administrative $134.9 $141.6 All
        002 - Fire Extinguishment & Emergency Response $1,874.0 $1,865.3 All
        003 - Fire Investigation $28.4 $29.7 1a
        004 - Fire Prevention $52.8 $58.4 1a, 1c
        009 - Emergency Medical Services $399.7 $397.3 2a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $354.1 $350.5 
        005 - Executive Administrative $236.0 $255.6 All
        006 - Fire Extinguishment & Emergency Response $49.6 $47.8 All
        007 - Fire Investigation $0.2 $0.3 1a
        008 - Fire Prevention $28.1 $2.1 1a, 1c
        010 - Emergency Medical Services $40.2 $44.7 2a
Agency Total $2,843.8 $2,842.8 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Lillian Bonsignore was appointed Commissioner of the Fire Department of New York City in December 2025.
• The calculation for ‘Ambulance in service hours per day’ was changed to include Paramedic Response Units (PRUs) 
since their introduction at the beginning of Fiscal 2025 and the previously published data has been revised.
• The calculation for ‘Apparatus collision rate (per 10,000 responses)’ was changed to correct the set of apparatus 
vehicles included in the calculation. Previously published data has been revised beginning with Fiscal 2022.
• The calculation for ‘Ambulance collision rate (per 10,000 responses)’ was changed to include Paramedic Response 
Units (PRUs) and to ensure that collisions with more than one ambulance are only counted once. Previously published 
data has been revised beginning with Fiscal 2022.
• The method for measuring ‘Average time from inspection request until inspection—Rangehood inspections (days)’ 
has changed because new software was implemented at the beginning of Fiscal 2023 that changed the scheduling 
process. Previously published data has been revised beginning with Fiscal 2023.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For more information on the Agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/fdny.
For more information on Agency recruitment materials, please visit www.JoinFDNY.com.
<<<PAGE 78>>>
Page 66  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 79>>>
NEW YORK CITY EMERGENCY 
MANAGEMENT Christina Farrell, Commissioner
NEW YORK CITY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT  |  Page 67
WHAT WE DO
NYC Emergency Management (NYCEM) 
serves New Yorkers before, during, and after 
emergencies through mitigation, preparedness, 
education, response, and recovery. As the City’s 
emergency management Agency, NYCEM plays 
a central role in ensuring that New York City’s 
public safety, response, operational, service 
delivery, and supporting agencies are aligned, 
informed, and able to act quickly and effectively 
when incidents occur. The Agency leads the 
coordination for multiagency responses to 
emergencies and other significant incidents in 
New York City, including novel incidents, planned 
events, severe weather, and other natural and 
human-made hazards. By establishing a common 
operating picture, facilitating executive decision-
making, coordinating resources, and aligning 
operational priorities, NYCEM enables agencies 
to respond as one unified City rather than as 
individual organizations.
NYCEM leads and supports implementation 
of large-scale interagency and public-facing 
programs designed to improve community 
preparedness and City readiness. This includes 
developing New York City emergency plans; 
liaising with over 400 local, State, Federal, 
nonprofit, and other entities; educating the 
public about emergency preparedness; and 
hosting training and exercises to prepare the 
City for varied hazards. NYCEM also works to 
advance long-term initiatives that reduce risk and 
increase the resilience of New York City through 
mitigation planning and grant coordination with 
the State of New York and Federal Emergency 
Management Agency (FEMA). 
During emergencies, NYCEM activates the 
City’s Emergency Operations Center, a 
central hub where officials from City, State, 
and Federal agencies, as well as nonprofit, 
private sector, regional, and utility partners, 
convene to coordinate response efforts, make 
critical decisions, share information, and solve 
problems. NYCEM also coordinates emergency 
information and risk communication for the 
public, government partners, and the media, 
ensuring timely and actionable information is 
shared before, during, and after emergencies 
through programs and systems such as Notify 
NYC, the Advance Warning System, and close 
communication with elected officials. 
As the City’s principal liaison with the New York 
State Department of Homeland Security and 
Emergency Services and the U.S. Department 
of Homeland Security for consequence 
management, NYCEM ensures that New York 
City adheres to state and federal preparedness 
and emergency management requirements.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
NYCEM is dedicated to addressing the needs of all New Yorkers and the communities 
they live in through comprehensive preparedness and recovery programs. Key programs 
include the Disability, Access, and Functional Needs (DAFN) program, Ready New York, 
Community Preparedness, Partners in Preparedness, and the Community Emergency 
Response Team (CERT) program that trains and deploys volunteers reflective of the 
City’s communities to support disaster preparedness and emergency response activities. 
NYCEM partners with elected officials, community boards, civic groups, businesses, 
nonprofits, and a variety of other organizations for outreach and engagement efforts 
to facilitate preparedness across a range of communities. 
As part of its commitment to engage and serve all of New York City’s communities, 
NYCEM launched the Strengthening Communities program in January 2023, 
funding community networks in underserved neighborhoods to support community 
preparedness, facilitate information sharing during emergencies, and develop 
emergency plans that integrate with the City’s Emergency Operations Center. Building 
on existing community strengths and assets, NYCEM continued to establish new and 
sustain existing Community Emergency Networks participating in Strengthening 
Communities programming. The Agency provided training, resources, and funding to 
help communities develop local emergency plans and recovery strategies and intends 
to continue expanding the program in the future. 
To increase access to emergency preparedness information vital to all New Yorkers, 
NYCEM’s all-hazard emergency preparedness guides are available in 13 languages 
(some also available in audio format and braille), providing crucial information for older 
adults, people with disabilities, parents of young children, non-English speakers, and 
pet owners. NYCEM also hosts an annual symposium to discuss topics such as building 
better community services for limited English proficiency communities, basement 
apartment safety, community preparedness and environmental justice, committing to 
equity in emergency response, and combating social isolation in older adults. Certified 
Deaf Interpreters and American Sign Language interpreters are also available for 
training sessions, community events, and emergencies citywide. 
NYCEM’s Advance Warning System sends emergency alerts to organizations that serve 
people with disabilities and others with access and functional needs. Notify NYC—the 
City’s free, official source for information about emergency events and important City 
services—offers common notifications in 13 languages in addition to American Sign 
Language and audio format, ensuring all New Yorkers receive timely and accessible 
emergency information. 
NYCEM recognizes that emergency managers are most effective when they have a 
deep understanding of the communities they serve. NYCEM’s Equity and Diversity 
Council advances understanding of the City’s faith communities through the Religious 
Literacy series featuring conversations with faith leaders from across the City to 
promote more informed and effective emergency response operations. The Council 
also shares information related to diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging to celebrate 
diverse identities and promote awareness of traditions (e.g., Holi, Ramadan), best 
practices (e.g., disability etiquette), and events (e.g., Black History Month, LGBTQIA+ 
Pride Month.)
<<<PAGE 80>>>
Page 68  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Coordinate citywide emergency mitigation, response, and recovery efforts.
Goal 1a Provide key alerts and updates before, during, and after an incident.
Goal 1b Coordinate emergency response and recovery for disasters of all scales and types.
SERVICE 2 Prepare City government, the public, private, and non-profit partners for any disaster.
Goal 2a Increase emergency preparedness and awareness among City residents, the private sector, and non-
governmental organizations.
Goal 2b Conduct planning, training, drills, and exercises regularly with City partners.
<<<PAGE 81>>>
NEW YORK CITY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT  |  Page 69
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Coordinate citywide emergency mitigation, response, and recovery efforts.
Goal 1a Provide key alerts and updates before, during, and after an incident.
In Fiscal 2026, NYCEM continued to use the City’s emergency notification system, Notify NYC, to provide over 1.6 million 
New Yorkers signed up to receive notifications with essential updates on news and emergency-related events in 14 languages 
(which includes American Sign Language.) Notify NYC issued a total of 2,473 messages in Fiscal 2026, an almost 14 
percent decrease compared to the 2,860 messages sent in Fiscal 2025. The average time from incident to issuing the first 
corresponding Notify NYC message was 6 minutes and 24 seconds, below the seven-minute target and consistent with 
Fiscal 2025. Some variance in the number of messages issued is expected from year to year because emergency events 
are unpredictable.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Notify NYC messages issued 2,157 2,215 2,713 2,860 2,473 * * Up *
 Average time from incident to issuing of Notify NYC message 
(minutes:seconds) 6:20 6:26 6:53 6:24 6:24 7:00 7:00 Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Coordinate emergency response and recovery for disasters of all scales and types.
The City’s Emergency Operations Center (EOC), located at NYCEM, centralizes 
coordination, information sharing, and decision-making during emergencies 
impacting the City. As part of this coordination, NYCEM convenes interagency 
Steering Committee calls with agency partners and citywide leadership before 
and throughout emergency activations to align on preparedness priorities and 
response actions. The EOC was activated for a total of 146 days in Fiscal 2026 in 
response to major emergencies, including a near-record winter featuring a 16-
day period of below-freezing temperatures and the earliest heatwave the city has 
experienced since 1978, which brought prolonged extreme high temperatures. 
NYCEM also activated the EOC to plan for and manage the World Cup and 
other citywide special events during the summer. By comparison, the EOC was 
activated for 365 days in Fiscal 2025, when it operated continuously throughout 
the year due to the asylum seeker operations that concluded in May 2025, an 
unprecedented and sustained humanitarian response. Outside of that continuous 
activation, the EOC responded to discrete emergency events for approximately 
32 days in Fiscal 2025, compared to 146 days in Fiscal 2026, reflecting a higher 
number of individual emergency events requiring EOC activation this fiscal year. 
For context, in Fiscal 2019—prior to both the COVID-19 pandemic and the asylum seeker operations, which occurred in 
close succession—the EOC was activated for approximately 65 days, underscoring that continuous, year-round activation 
is not typical of the EOC’s standard operating pattern.
NYCEM’s Watch Command operates 24 hours a day, seven days a week to identify, monitor, and communicate critical 
incidents affecting New York City. Watch Commanders track a broad range of citywide information sources, including first 
responder radio frequencies, 911 activity, local and national news, weather alerts, and other emergency communications. 
When an incident requires a field response, NYCEM dispatches Citywide Interagency Coordinators to support collaboration 
among responding agencies and partners. The number of interagency meetings held during field responses increased 
24 percent, growing from 254 in Fiscal 2025 to 314 in Fiscal 2026, primarily due to several highly complex responses 
that required sustained interagency coordination, including several five-alarm fires and the May 2026 flooding in Hollis, 
Queens. Overall, NYCEM responded to and monitored 3,308 incidents in Fiscal 2026, a seven percent decrease from 3,568 
in Fiscal 2025. Despite this decrease in overall incident volume, the increase in interagency meetings reflects the greater 
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Community Emergency 
Response Team (CERT) deployments
218 219
136
316
287
<<<PAGE 82>>>
Page 70  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
complexity and coordination requirements of many incidents during the reporting period. This total includes incidents 
with field responses, which decreased by less than one percent, and incidents monitored from Watch Command, which 
decreased by just under 10 percent. Some year-to-year variation in incident volume is expected due to the unpredictability 
of nature-related emergency events. 
NYCEM continues to promote emergency preparedness and response volunteerism through the Community Emergency 
Response Team (CERT) program. CERT members complete an intensive 11-class training program that raises awareness 
of emergencies and disasters and provides basic response skills needed for fire safety, light search and rescue, disaster 
medical operations, and traffic control. After graduating from the program, CERT members support their communities 
by assisting with emergency education and response. CERT members provided essential support to major summer events 
in addition to normal outreach and preparedness activities, with deployments increasing by 61 percent, from 136 in 
Fiscal 2025 to 219 in Fiscal 2026. CERT members donated a total of 19,615 hours of volunteer service in Fiscal 2026, an 
almost 82 percent increase from the 10,809 hours volunteered in Fiscal 2025, primarily due to the increase in planned 
and emergency deployments, including support for World Cup activities through the Summer Welcome Corps and more 
frequent emergency activations, such as catch basin clearing to mitigate local flooding.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Days Emergency Operations Center activated 365 350 366 365 146 * * Down *
Incidents 4,704 2,525 2,863 3,568 3,308 * * Down *
– Field responses 1,023 564 695 787 781 * * Down *
– Incidents monitored from Watch Command 3,681 1,961 2,168 2,811 2,538 * * Down *
Interagency meetings held during field responses 129 132 123 254 314 * * Up *
 Community Emergency Response Team volunteer 
hours 8,699 8,963 12,388 10,809 19,615 * * Up *
Community Emergency Response Team members 
recruited 60 107 103 80 168 * * Up *
Community Emergency Response Team deployments 316 287 218 136 219 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Prepare City government, the public, private, and non-profit partners for any disaster.
Goal 2a Increase emergency preparedness and awareness among City residents, the private sector, and non-
governmental organizations.
NYCEM continued connecting with New Yorkers by attending 650 public events in Fiscal 2026, a 14 percent increase 
from 568 public events attended in Fiscal 2025. These engagements are largely centered on Ready New York public 
education booths at fairs and other community gatherings, along with capacity-building sessions delivered to community 
and faith-based organizations across the City. Through these efforts, NYCEM strengthened its connection with residents 
and partners while advancing citywide preparedness.
Throughout Fiscal 2026, NYCEM maintained an active presence across its social media channels to share urgent updates, 
preparedness guidance, and other critical information with the public. Subscriber growth to Notify NYC, the City’s emergency 
alert program, accelerated markedly this year, a result NYCEM attributes in part to expanded support from partner agencies, 
elected officials, and coordinated social media and on-the-ground advertising efforts. These combined efforts further 
supported the Agency’s work to promote participation in Notify NYC, the City’s emergency alert program. Social media 
and on-the-ground advertising efforts further supported the Agency’s work to promote participation in Notify NYC, the 
City’s emergency alert program. In Fiscal 2026, subscribers to Notify NYC, CorpNet, the Advance Warning System, and the 
Community Preparedness newsletter increased by over 250,000 compared to Fiscal 2025, growing from just above 1.3 
million to over 1.6 million. This increase was primarily due to significant growth in Notify NYC subscribers, rising 20 percent 
since Fiscal 2025, motivated largely by summer events-focused marketing campaigns and public encouragement from City 
<<<PAGE 83>>>
NEW YORK CITY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT  |  Page 71
government officials between January and June. Views for NYCEM’s Know Your Zone webpage, a tool for helping New 
Yorkers access critical information on coastal storm evacuation zones, decreased 59 percent from 71,260 in Fiscal 2025 
to 29,380 in Fiscal 2026. This decrease is primarily a result of a decrease in hurricane activity that risked major flooding 
earlier in the year.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Know Your Zone webpage views 110,754 38,635 48,734 71,260 29,380 * * Down *
Beat the Heat Webpage Views NA NA NA 22,669 54,255 * * NA *
Community events participated in NA 635 460 568 650 * * NA Up
 Subscribers to Notify NYC, CorpNet, Advance 
Warning System, and Community Preparedness 
Newsletter 1,061,723 1,159,984 1,240,585 1,341,056 1,610,401 ñ ñ Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Conduct planning, training, drills, and exercises regularly with City partners.
In Fiscal 2026, NYCEM advanced its mission to prepare New York City’s government, residents, and partners for emergencies 
through the execution of 26 full-scale exercises and functional drills, double the number conducted in Fiscal 2025, and 
36 tabletop exercises. NYCEM’s participation in drills coordinated by other agencies also increased, growing from 31 in 
Fiscal 2025 to 43 in Fiscal 2026. Many of the planning, training, and coordination activities undertaken during Fiscal 2026 
supported the City’s preparation for the FIFA World Cup and other major events while creating lasting improvements to 
emergency management capabilities. In Fiscal 2026, NYCEM hosted additional outreach events, reaching 43,675 participants 
at emergency preparedness education sessions in Fiscal 2026, an increase of almost 30 percent from 33,610 in Fiscal 2025. 
This work shows NYCEM’s continued emphasis on strong, consistent planning and execution of citywide preparedness efforts 
as well as public education and support.
NYCEM remains committed to emergency management training through the NYC Emergency Management Academy. 
In preparation for major summer events, the number of instructor-led emergency management training sessions grew in 
Fiscal 2026, increasing from 137 training sessions conducted in Fiscal 2025 to 148 in Fiscal 2026, far exceeding the target 
minimum of 75. The number of participants at instructor-led sessions increased over nine percent, from 1,987 in Fiscal 2025 
to 2,174 in Fiscal 2026. Due to several new and revamped online emergency management courses being offered, as well as 
new course completion requirements, the number of courses completed through NYCEM’s Learning Management System 
increased almost 23 percent, from 577 in Fiscal 2025 to 707 in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Full-scale and functional exercises/drills 20 8 13 13 26 14 14 Up Up
 Tabletop exercises 45 36 25 24 36 31 31 Down Up
Participation in drills coordinated by other agencies or organiza -
tions 25 32 36 31 43 * * Up Up
 Participants at instructor-led emergency management training 
sessions 1,384 1,575 1,835 1,987 2,174 1,000 1,000 Up Up
Instructor-led emergency management training sessions 91 115 135 137 148 75 75 Up Up
 Participants at emergency preparedness education sessions 50,854 25,565 26,102 33,610 43,675 25,000 25,000 Neutral Up
Online emergency management courses completed through 
Learning Management System 994 1,131 1,116 577 707 * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 84>>>
Page 72  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $675.3 $186.2 $174.7 $105.4 $85.4 $89.3 $47.3 Down
Personnel 202 211 224 225 238 246 103 Up
Overtime paid ($000) $978.0 $1,116 $1,005 $719 $872 $308 $279 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        001 - Personal Services $23.9 $30.8 All
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $81.5 $54.6 All
Agency Total $105.4 $85.4 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.     
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Christina Farrell was appointed Commissioner of New York City Emergency Management in February 2026.
• The indicator ‘Beat the Heat webpage views’ was added to Goal 2a to track the reach and utilization of NYCEM’s heat 
emergency communications and resource sharing with the public.
• NYCEM’s services and goals were reordered to better reflect the Agency’s priorities. Previously published Service 1 
‘Prepare City government, the public, private, and non-profit partners for any disaster’ is now Service 2, and previously 
published Service 2 ‘Coordinate citywide emergency mitigation, response, and recovery efforts’ is now Service 1. The 
goals were similarly renumbered to reflect their corresponding service.
<<<PAGE 85>>>
NEW YORK CITY EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT  |  Page 73
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information on items referenced in the narrative, go to:
• NotifyNYC:  
https://nyc.gov/notify
• Disabilities, Access & Functional Needs Program:  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/em/ready/disabilities-access-functional-needs.page
• Partners in Preparedness:  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/em/ready/partners-preparedness.page
• Ready New York:  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/em/ready/ready-new-york.page
• Ready New York Guides:  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/em/ready/guides-resources.page
• Community Emergency Response Team (CERT):  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/em/volunteer/nyc-cert.page
• Community Preparedness:  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/em/ready/community-preparedness.page
For more information on the Agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/em.
<<<PAGE 86>>>
Page 74  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 87>>>
DEPARTMENT OF  
CORRECTION Stanley Richards, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION  |  Page 75
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Correction 
(DOC) is dedicated to creating 
safe and humane jails that provide 
individuals in DOC’s care with 
a path to successfully re-enter 
their communities. Those in the 
Department’s care include individuals 
18 years of age and older who are 
awaiting trial, those who have been 
convicted and sentenced to less 
than one year of incarceration, and 
those held on State parole warrants. 
The Department operates eight jail 
facilities, seven of which are located 
on Rikers Island and one of which 
is located within Bellevue Hospital. 
The Department also operates court 
holding facilities in each of the five 
boroughs and two hospital prison 
wards.
Guided by correctional best practices 
and in collaboration with criminal 
justice stakeholders, the Department 
continues to implement substantive 
reforms. With the goal of improving 
safety for staff and individuals in 
DOC’s care, the Department is 
focused on improving staffing ratios, 
modernizing operations, improving 
data tracking and transparency, 
developing holistic approaches 
to behavior management, and 
enhancing programs and services 
for those in DOC’s care to reduce 
idleness and promote skills 
development.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
DOC is committed to maintaining jails that serve the public interest in a manner 
that fosters the public’s trust. Fundamental to this commitment is the belief that 
the City’s jails should be safe, humane, and grounded in dignity and respect for 
every person within them. The Department recognizes that safety and humanity 
are mutually reinforcing principles and that lasting improvements to jail operations 
require attention to both.
The Department takes a people-first approach to its work, recognizing the 
individual needs, experiences, and potential of people in its care while maintaining 
safe and secure facilities. Everyone benefits when people in the Department’s care 
are given the tools they need to have less adverse contact with the justice system in 
the future. Although the Department does not determine who comes into custody 
or how long an individual remains in a jail facility, DOC plays an important role 
in supporting a strong continuum of care during incarceration and upon return 
to the community. The Department provides access to programming and services 
designed to address individual needs and support successful reentry, including 
workforce development and vocational training, educational opportunities, social 
services, behavioral interventions, and access to medical, mental health, and 
substance use services provided in partnership with other agencies and community-
based organizations. The Department also works to ensure that people with more 
complex needs receive appropriate levels of care and support.
The Department recognizes that its workforce is central to the safety, stability, and 
effectiveness of the jail system. DOC is committed to supporting staff through 
effective training and supervision, clear expectations, professional development, 
wellness initiatives, and providing them with the tools necessary to carry out their 
responsibilities safely and consistently. Strong correctional practice depends on 
communication, responsiveness, accountability, and consistent execution of the 
fundamentals of jail operations. Investing in the workforce and strengthening these 
core practices supports safer conditions for staff and people in the Department’s 
care alike.
The Department is also committed to transparency, accountability, and continuous 
improvement. DOC maintains a public data dashboard to share information about 
jail operations with impacted communities and other stakeholders. The Department 
uses data to identify challenges, measure outcomes, and inform policy and practice. 
As the Department addresses immediate operational needs and prepares for the 
future of the City’s jail system, including transitioning to a borough-based jail system, 
it continues to invest in infrastructure, technology, partnerships, and sustainable 
practices that strengthen safety, improve conditions, and support better outcomes 
for staff, people in the Department’s care, and the public.
<<<PAGE 88>>>
Page 76  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Provide a safe and secure environment for individuals in DOC’s care, staff and host communities.
Goal 1a Ensure the security and safety of individuals in DOC’s care.
Goal 1b Ensure that use of force is authorized and appropriate. 
Goal 1c Provide individuals in DOC’s care with timely access to health services.
Goal 1d Maximize bed capacity and address cell maintenance and repairs in a timely manner. 
Goal 1e Ensure timely transport of individuals in DOC’s care to courts throughout the City.
SERVICE 2 Prepare individuals in DOC’s care for return to their neighborhoods as civil and contributing
members.
Goal 2a Prepare as many individuals in DOC’s care as possible for successful release through participation in skills-
building programs including educational opportunities, jobs training, behavioral interventions and mental 
health services.
<<<PAGE 89>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION  |  Page 77
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Provide a safe and secure environment for individuals in DOC’s care, staff and host 
communities.
Goal 1a Ensure the security and safety of individuals in DOC’s care.
The City’s jail population remained elevated in Fiscal 2026, although the pace 
of growth slowed considerably compared with recent years. The average daily 
population (ADP) increased by approximately two percent, from 6,823 in 
Fiscal 2025 to 6,954 in Fiscal 2026, while total admissions decreased slightly, 
from 24,210 to 23,907. While the average length of stay for individuals in 
DOC’s care decreased from its peak of 121 days in Fiscal 2022 during the 
COVID-19 pandemic, it remained substantially longer than pre-pandemic 
norms at 116 days in Fiscal 2026. Nearly a quarter of the population has been 
in custody for more than a year, with some having been in custody for three 
years or more. On average, about 48 percent of the individuals held in the 
Department’s care throughout Fiscal 2026 were awaiting trial for felony A or 
B offenses, the most serious types of felony charges. Cases involving higher 
and more serious charges tend to be more complex and therefore take longer 
to process in court than those involving lower-level offenses, causing many 
individuals to remain in DOC’s care for longer than they have historically.
The recent increase in population began as a result of the wildcat strike 
among officers employed by the New York State Department of Corrections 
and Community Supervision (DOCCS) in February and March of 2025—a 
wildcat strike is a work stoppage by employees that is initiated without 
the approval or authorization of their union leadership. This resulted in 
a temporary suspension of all new admission transfers of state-ready 
individuals—people who have been sentenced to serve time in a New York 
State prison—from City custody to DOCCS facilities. This brought about a 
sharp increase in the number of state-ready individuals in the Department’s care who would have otherwise been transferred 
to DOCCS during this time. While transfers had partially resumed by the end of Fiscal 2025, the number of individuals 
transferred to DOCCS each week was not in line with the number of individuals who received a state sentence, meaning 
that the state-ready population in the Department’s care remained elevated into Fiscal 2026 despite transfers resuming. The 
significant and unexpected increase in population required the Department to overcrowd certain housing areas to ensure 
that all people entering custody could be assigned a bed and safely housed. As a result, despite the relatively small change 
in ADP between Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2026, the Department continued to operate with significant pressure on available 
bed capacity and other operational resources. The disruption in state-ready transfers resulting from the wildcat strike is also 
partially responsible for the increase in the average length of stay over the last fiscal year since those individuals remained 
in the Department’s care longer than they would have under normal circumstances. Coupled with the strains created from 
an increased population and length of stay, the Department continues to experience significant attrition in uniformed staff 
positions and, like public safety agencies across the nation, has faced exceptional challenges in recruitment to fill vacancies.
The proportion of people in DOC’s care affirmed to be affiliated with a Security Risk Group (SRG) or gang continued to 
decline, from 9.3 percent of the ADP in Fiscal 2025 to 8.5 percent in Fiscal 2026. It is likely that a much higher percentage 
of the population is SRG affiliated, however, the Department only reports SRG affiliation if the individual has affirmed their 
affiliation, regardless of other affirmative credible intelligence that may be available.
Despite the increases in ADP and length of stay amid staffing issues, several indicators of serious violence improved in 
Fiscal 2026. The rate of violent incidents among individuals in the Department’s care decreased by 11 percent, from 104.2 
incidents per 1,000 ADP per month in Fiscal 2025 to 93.2 in Fiscal 2026. Correspondingly, the rate of serious injury to 
individuals in DOC’s care resulting from these violent incidents decreased by 17 percent, from 13.5 to 11.2 per 1,000 ADP 
per month. Serious injury to staff resulting from assaults by individuals in DOC’s care also declined significantly, falling 41 
percent from 0.29 to 0.17 per 1,000 ADP per month. Stabbings and slashings remained essentially unchanged at 288 in 
Fiscal 2025 compared with 285 incidents in Fiscal 2026.
Average Daily Population
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Length of Stay Days
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Individuals in DOC’s Care
Population and Length of Stay
6,954
5,559 5,873 6,206
6,823
116
87
121 104 101
<<<PAGE 90>>>
Page 78  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Fight and assault infractions, however, increased considerably, up 76 percent from 8,528 in Fiscal 2025 to 15,035 in Fiscal 
2026. This increase occurred during a period in which the Department placed more emphasis on issuing infractions for 
misconduct and on pursuing appropriate jail-based arrests and should therefore be understood in that operational context. 
Jail-based arrests also increased by eight percent, from 436 to 469 over the last fiscal year.
Searches and weapons recovered both decreased modestly, down from 113,019 searches and 2,128 weapons recovered 
in Fiscal 2025 to 110,192 searches conducted and 1,972 weapons recovered in Fiscal 2026. The Department continues 
to take a multi-pronged approach to preventing serious incidents and strengthening safety and stability within the City’s 
jails. These efforts include consistent supervision and accountability and ensuring that people in the Department’s care can 
safely access programs, services, health care, and other essential activities.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
® Admissions 17,803 21,691 23,035 24,210 23,907 * * Up *
® Average daily population 5,559 5,873 6,206 6,823 6,954 * * Up Down
Average length of stay 121 104 101 87 116 * * Neutral *
Individuals in DOC’s care in Security Risk Group (% ADP) 18.9% 14.2% 10.9% 9.3% 8.5% * * Down Down
 Violent incidents among individuals in DOC’s care (monthly 
rate per 1,000 ADP) 87.0 90.4 94.9 104.2 93.2 ò ò Up Down
 Serious injury to individuals in DOC’s care as a result of violent 
incidents among individuals in DOC’s care (monthly rate per 
1,000 ADP) 18.9 15.4 12.1 13.5 11.2 ò ò Down Down
 Assault on staff by individual in DOC’s care (monthly rate per 
1,000 ADP) 15.8 12.3 9.5 12.4 13.0 ò ò Down Down
 Serious injury to staff as a result of assault on staff by indi -
vidual in DOC’s care (monthly rate per 1,000 ADP) 0.45 0.40 0.24 0.29 0.17 ò ò Down Down
Stabbings and slashings 491 387 370 288 285 * * Down Down
Fight/assault infractions 9,248 8,503 7,812 8,528 15,035 * * Up Down
Jail-based arrests of individuals in DOC’s care 234 384 341 436 469 * * Up Down
Searches 223,310 169,119 123,158 113,019 110,192 * * Down *
Weapons recovered 5,022 3,651 1,407 2,128 1,972 * * Down *
 Escapes 3 1 2 0 0 ò ò Down Down
 Non-natural deaths of individuals in DOC’s care 9 8 4 4 1 ò ò Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Ensure that use of force is authorized and appropriate.
The Department remains focused on providing uniformed members of service with the training, supervision, and operational 
support necessary to apply force in accordance with DOC policy and correctional best practices. Despite continued strain on 
Agency resources, especially staffing, overall use of force incidents remained essentially unchanged, decreasing slightly to 
7,025 incidents in Fiscal 2026. 
At the same time, the rate of use of force incidents resulting in injury decreased. Incidents resulting in serious injury decreased 
by four percent, from 0.95 use of force incidents per 1,000 ADP in Fiscal 2025 to 0.91 use of force incidents per 1,000 ADP 
in Fiscal 2026, while incidents resulting in minor injury decreased by 39 percent, from 3.37 to 2.06 use of force incidents per 
1,000 ADP . Uses of force resulting in no injury remained relatively stable. In Fiscal 2022, use of force incidents with serious 
injury and use of force incidents with minor injury were classified differently and included a higher number of incidents. During 
this time, any use of force incident that recorded a serious or minor injury was categorized as a use of force with serious or 
minor injury, respectively, regardless of whether the injury occurred as a result of the use of force or from the events that 
precipitated the use of force (e.g., violent incidents among individuals in DOC’s care). In Fiscal 2023, the Department realigned 
with its previous practice and now only categorizes an incident as a use of force with serious or minor injury if the injury was 
a direct result of the use of force. Serious injuries that occurred as a result of the precipitating incident are now appropriately 
recorded separately. This realignment explains, in part, the year-over-year decreases seen in these indicators from Fiscal 2022 
to Fiscal 2026.
<<<PAGE 91>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION  |  Page 79
Each use of force incident is reviewed to identify whether force was appropriate and consistent with policy and to determine 
whether corrective action or discipline is warranted. The Department continues its efforts to reduce unnecessary uses of force 
and the circumstances that may give rise to force while ensuring staff have the tools necessary to safely manage serious 
incidents.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Incidents of use of force 7,080 7,000 7,064 7,044 7,025 * * Neutral Down
 Department use of force incidents with serious injury (rate per 
1,000 ADP) 6.50 4.13 0.74 0.95 0.91 ò ò Down Down
Department use of force incidents with minor injury (rate per 
1,000 ADP) 12.06 8.73 3.37 3.37 2.06 * * Down Down
Department use of force incidents with no injury (rate per 1,000 
ADP) 87.23 86.64 90.50 81.87 81.34 * * Neutral Down
Incidents and allegations of use of force 7,302 7,195 7,265 7,187 7,173 * * Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Provide individuals in DOC’s care with timely access to health services.
NYC Health + Hospitals’ Correctional Health Services (CHS) provides medical and mental health services for people in the 
Department’s care. The proportion of individuals eligible for specialized mental health discharge procedures increased slightly 
from 57 percent of the ADP in Fiscal 2025 to 60 percent in Fiscal 2026. The proportion of individuals with a serious mental 
health diagnosis increased slightly for the fourth consecutive fiscal year to 22.3 percent in Fiscal 2026. The prevalence of 
behavioral health needs within the jail population continues to shape facility operations and the coordination required 
between the Department and CHS.
Individuals seeking non-emergency medical care may make requests to DOC staff or contact the CHS Health Triage Line. CHS 
determines whether an individual requires a scheduled medical encounter and schedules the appointment. The Department 
works in close collaboration with CHS to produce individuals for scheduled appointments while accounting for separation 
orders, movement and security considerations, and clinic capacity. In Fiscal 2026, the Department produced 76 percent of 
individuals in its care for their scheduled clinic appointment, slightly down from 77 percent in Fiscal 2025. The total number 
of scheduled appointments increased by seven percent, from 710,001 scheduled appointments in Fiscal 2025 to 760,577 
in Fiscal 2026. The increase in scheduled appointments is likely attributed to the increase in ADP .
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Individuals in DOC’s care eligible for specialized mental health 
discharge procedures (% ADP) 50% 51% 54% 57% 60% * * Up *
Individuals in DOC’s care with a serious mental health diagnosis 
(% ADP) 16.2% 18.9% 20.3% 20.7% 22.3% * * Up *
Average clinic waiting time (minutes) 11 14 10 18 24 * * Up Down
Scheduled clinic encounters NA NA 617,375 710,001 760,577 * * NA *
 Scheduled clinic encounters produced (%) NA NA 75% 77% 76% ñ ñ NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 92>>>
Page 80  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1d Maximize bed capacity and address cell maintenance and repairs in a timely manner.
The jail population as a percent of capacity remained high in Fiscal 2026, increasing slightly from approximately 92 percent in 
Fiscal 2025 to 93 percent in Fiscal 2026. Although the year-over-year change was modest, available bed capacity continued 
to be constrained by the size of the population as well as classification, mental health, restrictive housing, and other 
specialized housing requirements that limit the interchangeability of available beds. In Fiscal 2026, the City permanently 
closed the North Infirmary Command (NIC), one of the Department’s jail facilities on Rikers Island, as part of its ongoing 
effort to close the Rikers Island jail complex, and individuals in DOC’s care were relocated from the NIC to other facilities. 
Additionally, the State Commission of Correction commissioned the Outposted Therapeutic Housing Unit at Bellevue Hospital 
(OTXB), a secure therapeutic jail facility located within Bellevue Hospital designed to provide enhanced medical care for 
people in the Department's care with complex medical needs. The OTXB began operating in April 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Jail-cells unavailable due to short-term repair (%) 4.3% 2.9% 1.4% 1.3% 0.8% 1.0% 1.0% Down Down
 Population as percent of capacity (%) 75% 79% 87% 92% 93% 96% 96% Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1e Ensure timely transport of individuals in DOC’s care to courts throughout the City.
The Department maintained a high rate of court production in Fiscal 2026, with 98.7 percent of scheduled on-site court 
appearances successfully produced, essentially unchanged from 98.6 percent in Fiscal 2025. There was a small decrease 
in the total number of on-site court appearances scheduled, down from 88,074 in Fiscal 2025 to 85,392 in Fiscal 2026. 
Similarly, scheduled teleconference appearances decreased by approximately nine percent, from 1,805 in Fiscal 2025 to 
1,640 in Fiscal 2026, while the production rate increased slightly from 88.9 percent to 89.6 percent. 
The number and type of court appearances scheduled reflect the needs of the court system and are determined by the 
Office of Court Administration; DOC does not determine whether an appearance occurs in person or by teleconference. 
The Department continues to work with criminal justice stakeholders to ensure people in its care are produced for court 
reliably and can move through the justice process as expeditiously as possible. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Scheduled on-site court appearances NA 94,606 90,849 88,074 85,392 * * NA *
 Scheduled on-site court appearances produced (%) NA 91.5% 98.2% 98.6% 98.7% ñ ñ NA Up
Scheduled teleconference court appearances NA 3,681 1,826 1,805 1,640 * * NA *
Scheduled teleconference court appearances produced (%) NA 88.9% 87.3% 88.9% 89.6% * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 93>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION  |  Page 81
SERVICE 2 Prepare individuals in DOC’s care for return to their neighborhoods as civil and contributing
members.
Goal 2a Prepare as many individuals in DOC’s care as possible for successful release through participation in 
skills-building programs including educational opportunities, jobs training, behavioral interventions and 
mental health services.
People in the Department’s care have access to a range of programs and services intended to support their individual goals, 
reduce idleness, build skills, and prepare for successful reentry. In Fiscal 2026, 16.5 percent of individuals in DOC’s care 
participated in programs, services, and activities, up from 15.1 percent in Fiscal 2025 and above the 10.0 percent target.
The Department continued to provide both group-based and individualized services. Services such as anger management, 
parenting classes, job readiness, recreation, and fine and performing arts are offered in group settings. Group facilitation 
sessions increased by eight percent, from 50,242 in Fiscal 2025 to 54,448 in Fiscal 2026. The Department continues to 
recruit and stabilize the staffing resources needed to ensure that there are more group sessions offered and has opened 
several new program houses to encourage increased participation in programs and services among interested populations. 
One-on-one sessions, which include services such as individual counseling, transition planning, and social services, increased 
by 16 percent, from 20,275 to 23,527 over the last fiscal year. These increases supported broader access to programming 
and individualized assistance in Fiscal 2026.
DOC also offers workforce development programs to provide career and technical education through an array of courses, 
including automotive, barbering, barista, carpentry, cosmetology, culinary arts, digital literacy, driving, make-up artistry, 
music engineering, small business, welding, and certifications in areas such as CPR, flagging/scaffolding, and construction 
worksite safety. Workforce development enrollments decreased by 78 percent, from 4,167 in Fiscal 2025 to 935 in Fiscal 
2026 due to challenges the Department experienced in releasing funds to providers who deliver these services. Average 
daily attendance in school programs increased from approximately 76 individuals in Fiscal 2025 to 81 in Fiscal 2026, while 
participation in post-secondary education programs decreased by approximately 14 percent, from 291 individuals to 250. 
Participation rates can fluctuate between reporting periods based on various factors, including the facilities at which the 
programs are offered. 
The Department continues to assess program availability and participation and to seek feedback from people in its care 
to ensure that programming, educational services, and enrichment activities are responsive to their needs and interests.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Individuals in DOC’s care participating in programs, services, 
and activities (%) 7.2% 18.2% 14.8% 15.1% 16.5% 10.0% 10.0% Up Up
Group facilitation sessions provided to individuals in DOC’s care NA 42,299 40,422 50,242 54,448 * * NA *
One-on-one sessions provided to individuals in DOC’s care NA 32,961 19,733 20,275 23,527 * * NA *
Enrollments in workforce development programs NA 4,275 4,045 4,167 935 * * NA *
Average daily attendance in school programs 32 67 82 76 81 * * Up *
Individuals in DOC’s care participating in post-secondary education 
programs NA 39 450 291 250 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Payout ($000) NA $48,676 $279,846 $234,849 NA * * NA Down
Workplace injuries reported NA NA 3,231 2,267 2,063 * * NA Down
Accidents involving individuals in DOC’s care 283 252 225 266 282 * * Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 94>>>
Page 82  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 91.7% 100.0% 100.0% 97.7% 100.0% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 72.8% 78.0% 72.1% 62.2% 75.2% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $1,391.8 $1,357.4 $1,277.6 $1,356.2 $1,379.9 $1,400.5 $1,263.4 Neutral
Revenues ($000,000) $11.8 $11.7 $11.3 $13.0 $12.8 $11.8 $11.8 Neutral
Personnel (uniformed) 7,068 6,299 5,954 5,777 5,702 7,060 6,474 Down
Personnel (civilian) 1,559 1,552 1,537 1,581 1,659 1,833 1,840 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $262.9 $294.6 $281.8 $341.1 $369.1 $373.1 $149.5 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $499.3 $774.8 $982.5 $2,528.5 $2,153.3 $2,338.9 $4,178.4 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the "Indicator Definitions" at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          "NA" - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $1,178.9 $1,189.6 
        001 - Administration $91.6 $93.4 All
        002 - Operations $169.7 $154.0 All
        005 - Jail Operations $847.6 $839.5 All
        006 - Health and Programs $25.9 $30.7 All
        009 - Transportation $44.1 $47.2 All
        011 - Training4 NA $24.8 All
Other Than Personal Services - Total $177.3 $190.3 
        003 - Operations $89.2 $95.3 All
        004 - Administration $14.5 $15.3 All
        007 - Jail Operations $48.4 $47.6 All
        008 - Health and Programs $20.4 $25.3 All
        010 - Transportation $4.8 $6.8 All
Agency Total $1,356.2 $1,379.9 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.    2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of chapter.  4This UA 
originated in Fiscal 2026.     “NA” Not Available
<<<PAGE 95>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION  |  Page 83
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS ! 
• Stanley Richards was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Correction in January 2026.
• Preceding the Fiscal 2026 Mayor’s Management Report, DOC implemented updated language standards Agency-wide, 
including referring to “individuals in custody” as “individuals in DOC’s care.” Accordingly, any reference to “individuals 
in custody” in all services, goals and indicators was updated to “individuals in DOC’s care.”
• The indicator ’Average length of stay’ was added to Goal 1a to provide more information about the population and 
conditions that impact DOC’s operations.
• The Fiscal 2024 figure for ‘Workplace injuries reported’ in Agencywide Management was updated from 1,494 to 
3,231, and the Fiscal 2025 figure was updated from 1,294 to 2,267. Fiscal 2022 and Fiscal 2023 figures are no longer 
available as the Department rectifies undercounts that it discovered and is working to resolve. 
• The value for ’Payout’ in Agencywide Management is not available because starting in Fiscal 2026, values will only be 
reported annually as final audited data in the Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR) rather than as an initial 
estimate in the Mayor’s Management Report (MMR). Historically, initial figures for this indicator were provided by the 
Law Department in the MMR, while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
in the following PMMR. OMB uses a different process and timeline to determine the finalized audited amount disbursed 
by the City, prompting this change to clarify reporting.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• The DOC Data Dashboard:  
www.nyc.gov/site/doc/data/statistics-and-compliance.page
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC:  
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/doc.
<<<PAGE 96>>>
Page 84  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 97>>>
DEPARTMENT OF  
PROBATION Sharun Goodwin, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF PROBATION  |  Page 85
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Probation (DOP) 
is dedicated to building stronger and 
safer communities by supervising and 
supporting adults and juveniles placed 
on probation by the Court system. 
Through individualized supervision, 
evidence-based practices, and access 
to education, employment, family 
engagement, and civic participation 
opportunities, DOP helps individuals 
make positive changes and achieve 
long-term stability. DOP also facilitates 
access to mental health services 
through referrals and partnerships 
with community-based providers. In 
collaboration with Courts, community-
based organizations, and other criminal 
justice agencies, DOP promotes 
successful community reintegration and 
works to reduce recidivism.
In Criminal and Supreme Courts, DOP 
prepares pre-sentence investigation 
reports, supervises individuals based 
on their assessed risk and needs, and 
connects them to essential services that 
help support community reintegration. 
In Family Court, DOP provides reports 
on juvenile delinquency matters while 
partnering with families and community 
groups to support youth development. 
In total, DOP provides intake services, 
investigations and supervision in some 
36,000 cases per year.
DOP also operates the Neighborhood 
Opportunity Network (NeON) in seven 
neighborhoods (Brownsville, Bedford-
Stuyvesant, and East New York, 
Brooklyn; Harlem, Manhattan; Jamaica, 
Queens; North Shore, Staten Island; 
and South Bronx, Bronx) where high 
concentrations of people on probation 
reside. DOP reaches thousands of 
New Yorkers through NeON locations, 
providing a range of opportunities—
including arts programming, High 
School Equivalency classes, free 
groceries, access to health insurance 
enrollment services and more—for 
both people on probation and other 
neighborhood residents.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
As the largest community corrections alternative to incarceration in New York 
City and one of the largest probation agencies in the nation, DOP is committed 
to advancing equity by addressing long standing disparities and reducing the 
disproportionate impact of the justice system on affected populations. Through 
evidence-based supervision and partnerships with community organizations, DOP 
provides probationers involved in the criminal justice system and their neighbors and 
families with access to services and opportunities that foster rehabilitation, strengthen 
communities, and support long-term success.
DOP is committed to minimizing the adverse collateral consequences of being 
involved in the criminal and juvenile justice systems, which fall heavily on people and 
communities of color. This commitment is demonstrated through the diverse array of 
resources and programming (educational, employment and more) made available in 
these communities. Most NeON programs, including NeON Nutrition Kitchens, NeON 
Arts and NeON Sports, are open to all community residents, fostering connectivity 
between neighbors and destigmatizing people on probation.
For youth, young adults, and their families, DOP offers developmentally appropriate, 
evidence-based programs that strengthen family relationships, and promote positive 
youth development. Adolescent Portable Therapy delivers intensive individual and 
family therapy in the home and community to address substance use, mental health 
needs, and behaviors associated with continued justice system involvement. Parent 
Support provides parents and caregivers with personalized guidance, workshops, 
service referrals, and access to Parent Coaches. Pathways to Excellence, Achievement, 
and Knowledge (PEAK) Centers offer structured afterschool programming focused 
on education, career exploration, life skills, employment readiness, and family 
engagement. Plus Mentoring, part of the Young Men’s Initiative, provides young adults 
ages 16 to 24 on probation with intensive mentorship and individualized connections 
to opportunities that promote workforce development and civic engagement. 
Together, these programs provide participants with the support, skills, resources 
and opportunities needed to achieve positive development, strengthen community 
connections, and reduce the likelihood of further justice system involvement.
For adults and young adults, DOP promotes economic mobility through paid on-
the-job skill building, transitional employment, job readiness, and vocational 
training. NeON Works provides year-long paid opportunities for probationers, while 
the Neighborhood Employment Services Program offers work experience through 
community upkeep projects at New York City Housing Authority developments. 
Employment focused services connect participants with transitional work and long-
term employment opportunities. DOP also provides training and industry recognized 
certifications in commercial driving and skilled trades.
Through accountability measures and service practices grounded in best practices 
research, such as mentoring and training in life skills, as well as partnerships with 
community-based organizations and other stakeholders, DOP fosters personal change, 
increases opportunities for probationers to thrive and strengthens communities, 
thereby building a more equitable and safer City.
<<<PAGE 98>>>
Page 86  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Contribute to improved outcomes in adult and family Court proceedings. 
Goal 1a Produce timely and accurate pre-sentence investigations.
Goal 1b Assess and determine youth appropriate for diversion from formal juvenile Court proceedings via adjustment 
services.
SERVICE 2 Monitor and enforce the conditions of probation.
Goal 2a Assess client risk and misconduct data to apply optimal supervision, monitoring, and programming throughout 
a probation term.
Goal 2b Maximize client accountability through field visits and enforcement actions.
SERVICE 3 Provide client support and enrichment services to improve probation outcomes.
Goal 3a Offer community-based services aligned with objectives identified through comprehensive assessments of 
probationer needs.
<<<PAGE 99>>>
DEPARTMENT OF PROBATION  |  Page 87
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Contribute to improved outcomes in adult and family Court proceedings. 
Goal 1a Produce timely and accurate pre-sentence investigations.
DOP is required by law to submit investigation reports in adult and Family Court proceedings on adults facing sentencing 
and youths involved in juvenile delinquency matters. The reports include sentencing recommendations for judges. In Fiscal 
2026, the Department completed 7,678 pre-sentence investigations (PSIs) for adults and 1,149 juvenile investigation and 
reports (I&Rs), a three percent increase and less than one percent decrease, respectively, compared to Fiscal 2025. The rate 
at which adult PSIs were completed on time decreased by five percentage points from Fiscal 2025 to 92 percent in Fiscal 
2026. The juvenile I&R on time completion rate increased by one percentage point over the past fiscal year, improving to 
95 percent in Fiscal 2026. These changes could reflect a combination of operational factors, including case volume, case 
complexity, and the timing of Court referrals. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Adult investigation reports completed 7,397 8,270 7,744 7,478 7,678 * * Neutral *
 Adult investigation reports — On time completion (%) 98.0% 99.0% 99.2% 97.0% 92.0% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Juvenile investigation reports completed 725 808 1,135 1,155 1,149 * * Up *
 Juvenile investigation reports — On time completion (%) 95.0% 91.0% 80.0% 94.0% 95.0% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Assess and determine youth appropriate for diversion from formal juvenile Court proceedings via 
adjustment services.
All youths between the ages of 12 and 17 who fall under Family Court jurisdiction are processed post-arrest by DOP . 
During the juvenile intake process, probation officers make individual assessments for statutory eligibility and suitability 
for adjustment, allowing for diversion from prosecution. This includes outreach and communication with complainants, 
the New York Police Department (NYPD), and youths’ families. A case must meet both statutory eligibility and suitability 
requirements to be considered for adjustment and diverted from prosecution. Juvenile intake cases vary in assessed risk 
and charge severity. Although DOP evaluates each case for adjustment, final decisions are ultimately at the discretion of 
the Court system. 
In Fiscal 2026, the Department processed 8,351 juvenile intake cases, a three percent increase from Fiscal 2025. The overall 
adjustment eligibility rate for these cases decreased by one percentage point over the last fiscal year to 15 percent. The 
adjustment eligibility rate is further broken down by risk category, which is determined based on charge severity, assessed 
risk score, prior criminological history, and statements from witnesses, complainants, family, NYPD and other relevant 
stakeholders. The proportion of low-risk juvenile cases eligible for adjustment decreased four percentage points from 29 
percent in Fiscal 2025 to 25 percent in Fiscal 2026. The adjustment eligibility rate for medium-risk and high-risk juvenile 
cases remained the same over the last fiscal year at two percent and zero percent, respectively. 
Although the downward trend for low-risk cases has continued since Fiscal 2022, the four percentage-point decrease over 
this last year is considerably less than the 10 percentage-point decrease that occurred from Fiscal 2024 to Fiscal 2025. 
Similarly, the one percentage-point decrease in the overall rate was also much steadier than the previous eight percentage-
point decrease reported from Fiscal 2024 to Fiscal 2025. It is difficult to compare these rates across years as the types of 
cases referred to DOP changes over time and each case varies based on individual circumstances. DOP continues to review 
adjustment outcomes and provide probation officers with training on case screening practices to identify eligible cases for 
diversion from formal Court proceedings, consistent with statutory requirements and community safety considerations.
<<<PAGE 100>>>
Page 88  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Juvenile supervision — Intake cases received 4,871 6,486 7,564 8,106 8,351 * * Up *
 Juvenile delinquency cases eligible for adjustment (%) 41% 32% 24% 16% 15% ñ ñ Down Up
– low-risk (%) 61% 51% 39% 29% 25% * * Down Up
– medium-risk (%) 13% 5% 2% 2% 2% * * Down *
– high-risk (%) 3% 1% 0% 0% 0% * * Down *
Juvenile delinquency cases open for adjustment NA NA NA 1,408 1,349 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Monitor and enforce the conditions of probation.
Goal 2a Assess client risk and misconduct data to apply optimal supervision, monitoring, and programming 
throughout a probation term.
The Department is committed to promoting public safety and reducing 
recidivism. Accomplishing this starts by providing structured supervision 
and targeted services to individuals placed on probation. Each supervision 
case begins with an initial assessment of the client’s criminal and 
socioeconomic history to determine risk level and set the appropriate 
supervision model. Individuals are then assigned to supervision groups 
where probation officers monitor compliance with Court mandated 
conditions and connect clients to community-based resources in education, 
employment, behavioral health, or other services that address their needs. 
In Fiscal 2026, there were 11,163 adult supervision cases, three percent 
more than in Fiscal 2025. Probation officers were able to complete 9,030 
initial risks and need assessments for these cases, a 16 percent increase 
from Fiscal 2025. Despite this larger caseload, officers completed adult 
initial assessments 18 percent faster on average, improving from 11 days 
in Fiscal 2025 to nine days in Fiscal 2026. This improvement is largely 
due to the Agency’s targeted response, which focused on streamlining 
workflows, strengthening staff support, and adopting new technology.
For juveniles, officers work closely with youth and their families to set personal goals and monitor school attendance and 
behavior to ensure compliance with probation conditions. Similar to the trend with adult cases, there were 11 percent more 
(1,076) juvenile supervision cases in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025. However, the number of initial risk and needs 
assessments officers were able to complete for juvenile cases decreased by 10 percent to 2,084. At the same time, the 
average completion time for these juvenile assessments improved by 15 percent, decreasing from 27 days to 23 days over 
the last fiscal year. The improvement in timeliness may reflect a combination of operational factors, including assessment 
volume, case complexity, workload distribution, and referral timing. DOP continues to monitor assessment timeliness, 
reinforce consistent assessment practices, and strengthen staff capacity to improve the process.
In both adult and juvenile divisions, failure to comply with probation conditions may result in a violation of probation. 
Violations can include missed appointments, failure to participate in mandated programs, or new criminal activity. A rearrest 
during the probation term is considered a serious violation and may result in revocation of probation. The Department’s 
supervision model balances accountability with opportunities for rehabilitation, ensuring that clients have the tools to 
successfully reintegrate into their communities. The average monthly rearrest rate for adults on probation decreased from 
3.7 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 3.5 percent in Fiscal 2026, while the juvenile rate increased by from 4.4 percent to 5.0 percent. 
When viewed as a percentage of all NYPD arrests, the adult rate decreased from 2.5 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 2.4 percent 
in Fiscal 2026, while the juvenile rearrest rate remained unchanged at 0.3 percent. The increase in the juvenile rearrest rate 
is partly due to year-over-year changes in the youth population and the types of cases the Department receives following 
the full implementation of the Raise the Age law in October 2019. This law expanded the age range of youth served within 
the juvenile justice system from youth under the age of 16 to youth under the age of 18.
Juvenile probationer rearrest rate (monthly average)(%)
Adult probationer rearrest rate (monthly average)(%)
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Rearrest Rate Monthly Average (%) for Adult 
and Juvenile Probationers
3.1%
3.5%
4.4%
3.7%
5.0%
2.2%
3.0%
2.7%
3.8%
3.5%
<<<PAGE 101>>>
DEPARTMENT OF PROBATION  |  Page 89
The average monthly violation of probation (VOP) rate for adults, which represents the percentage of adult probationers 
whose cases are referred to Court for a violation proceeding due to serious misconduct each month, decreased from 1.5 
percent in Fiscal 2025 to 1.0 percent in Fiscal 2026. The percentage of adult probation violation proceedings ending in 
revocation increased by eight percentage points to 50 percent. In contrast, the juvenile VOP rate increased from 1.4 percent 
to 1.7 percent, while the juvenile revocation rate increased by one percentage point to 30 percent. Probation officers work 
to address noncompliance before Court intervention is required by monitoring progress, identifying emerging concerns, 
adjusting case plans, and connecting individuals with appropriate services. When a case is referred for a VOP proceeding, 
probation officers prepare supporting case information, coordinate with the Court, and continue monitoring the individual 
while the VOP proceeding is pending.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Adult supervision cases 10,109 9,656 9,918 10,812 11,163 * * Up *
Juvenile supervision cases 478 653 931 967 1,076 * * Up *
Adult initial risk assessments completed 7,036 8,209 8,223 7,810 9,030 * * Up *
Juvenile initial risk assessments completed 2,216 2,610 2,530 2,324 2,084 * * Neutral *
Average time to complete adult initial risk assessments (days) 9 11 8 11 9 * * Neutral *
Average time to complete juvenile initial risk assessments (days) 26 29 33 27 23 * * Down *
Adult probationer rearrest rate (monthly average) (%) 2.2% 2.7% 3.5% 3.7% 3.5% 3.0% 3.0% Up Down
 Adult probationers arrested citywide as a percentage of the 
NYPD arrest report (monthly average) (%) 2.4% 2.2% 2.5% 2.5% 2.4% 2.6% 2.6% Neutral Down
 Average monthly violation rate for adult probationers (%) 0.7% 1.0% 2.0% 1.5% 1.0% * * Up *
Juvenile probationer rearrest rate (monthly average) (%) 3.0% 3.8% 3.1% 4.4% 5.0% 3.5% 3.5% Up Down
 Juvenile probationers arrested citywide as a percentage of the 
NYPD arrest report (monthly average) (%) 0.1% 0.2% 0.2% 0.3% 0.3% * * Up *
 Average monthly violation rate for juvenile probationers (%) 1.7% 2.1% 1.7% 1.4% 1.7% 3.0% 3.0% Down Down
Probation violation proceedings ending in revocation for adult 
probationers (%) 33% 35% 38% 42% 50% * * Up Down
Probation violation proceedings ending in revocation for juvenile 
probationers (%) 23% 26% 34% 29% 30% * * Up Down
Revocation of juveniles not resulting in placement (%) 55.0% 65.0% 20.0% 26.0% 32.0% * * Down *
Revocation of juveniles resulting in placement (%) 45.0% 35.0% 80.0% 74.0% 68.0% * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Maximize client accountability through field visits and enforcement actions.
The Intelligence Unit (Intel) is a relatively small, highly specialized unit composed of probation officers who conduct cyber 
and social media investigations and provide specialized enforcement support in cases involving heightened risk, emerging 
safety concerns, or other circumstances that require specialized attention. Their responsibilities include mandatory retakes 
across the nation whereby a probationer with an active warrant is taken into custody and transported back to a supervising 
jurisdiction; or is arrested in other jurisdictions for New York City violation of probation bench warrants. Case-bearing 
probation officers, in contrast, are primarily responsible for the ongoing supervision and enforcement of probationers on 
their caseloads and may refer matters to Intel when specialized support or additional enforcement activity is warranted. 
Cyber and social media investigations conducted by Intel officers into instances where probationers are alleged to be 
engaging in negative social media activity, for example, displaying a firearm or engaging in assaultive behavior on social 
media, decreased by 33 percent from 133 in Fiscal 2025 to 89 in Fiscal 2026 due to less reported instances. 
Similarly, the number of enforcement actions conducted by Intel decreased 45 percent from Fiscal 2025 to 2,804 actions 
in Fiscal 2026. This decline was reflected across all enforcement categories, including a 20 percent decrease in warrant 
enforcement; 49 percent drop in criminal possession of weapon visits; 99 percent reduction in ignition interlock device 
checks to just three checks due to fewer referrals from probation officers to Intel; 18 percent decrease in domestic incidents 
enforcement—which includes follow-up on NYPD domestic incident report notifications; and 57 percent decrease in other 
enforcement events. 
<<<PAGE 102>>>
Page 90  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
The decrease in Intel-specific enforcement activity is due, in part, to a reassignment of Intel staff and resources across the 
Agency. Beginning in Fiscal 2025 and continuing through the midpoint of Fiscal 2026, Intel officers and resources were 
reassigned to borough-based operations, where they conducted enforcement activities alongside case-bearing probation 
officers under the supervision of the respective borough’s executive leadership. Previously, enforcement activities were more 
distinctly divided between Intel and case-bearing officers. This transfer reduced the staffing and resources assigned directly 
to Intel, resulting in fewer enforcement events being referred to the unit. During this period, case-bearing probation officers 
continued to address enforcement needs as part of their ongoing case supervision responsibilities, working alongside the 
now former Intel officers. Consequently, the full scope of the Department’s enforcement work was not reflected in Intel’s 
reported enforcement totals because the measure is designed to capture only enforcement activity conducted by Intel. 
In Fiscal 2026, DOP began rebuilding the Intel team’s capacity by refining the referral process and more strategically 
deploying its specialized resources. Case-bearing probation officers continue to address enforcement needs within the 
scope of their supervisory responsibilities, referring cases to Intel based on individual case circumstances. This recentralized 
approach promotes efficient resource allocation and workflow management while supporting effective enforcement, client 
accountability, and community safety.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cyber/social media investigations NA 42 171 133 89 * * NA *
 Intel enforcement events 1,807 3,678 7,407 5,085 2,804 * * Up *
– Warrant enforcement NA NA 1,634 1,197 959 * * NA *
– Criminal possession of a weapon visits NA NA 1,156 1,787 907 * * NA *
– Ignition interlock device visits NA NA 2,743 343 3 * * NA *
– Domestic incidents enforcement NA NA 275 368 301 * * NA *
– Other enforcement events NA NA 1,599 1,390 598 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Provide client support and enrichment services to improve probation outcomes.
Goal 3a Offer community-based services aligned with objectives identified through comprehensive assessments 
of probationer needs.
DOP delivers a robust portfolio of programs tailored to meet the diverse needs of individuals under supervision. For youth 
adjudicated in Family Court who would otherwise be removed from their homes and placed in detention centers or 
group homes, the Department’s Alternative-to-Placement (ATP) programs provide intensive, Court-mandated community 
supervision. ATP programs include Advocate, Intervene, Mentor (AIM) and Every Child Has a Chance to Excel and Succeed 
(ECHOES), which enable eligible youth to remain at home while receiving enhanced oversight and targeted, family-centered 
services. In Fiscal 2026, there were 74 new enrollments of juveniles in ATP programs, a 30 percent increase from the 57 
youths in Fiscal 2025. While probation officers may recommend ATP , enrollment ultimately depends on both the Court’s 
order and the program’s assessment of whether it can appropriately meet the individual’s needs. 
Youth not ordered to ATP may instead be referred to other supervision programs tailored to their needs. Through these 
programs, probation officers engage with youth and families, monitor compliance with Court mandates, and connect 
individuals to education, counseling, job readiness, and other services that reduce risks of recidivism. In Fiscal 2026, there 
were 1,911 new enrollments in DOP managed programs, up 24 percent from 1,547 in Fiscal 2025. This growth is largely 
due to expanded outreach efforts through DOP’s borough offices and community-based events, which support increased 
referrals and enrollment in programs in both adult and juvenile operation divisions. 
The Department’s goal is for individuals to complete their probation terms with the skills to successfully remain in their 
communities. The rate of adult individuals successfully completing their probation terms increased by one percentage point 
from Fiscal 2025 to 77 percent in Fiscal 2026, while the juvenile successful completion rate also rose by one percentage 
<<<PAGE 103>>>
DEPARTMENT OF PROBATION  |  Page 91
point to 93 percent. The increase for both adults and juveniles was driven by the Department’s efforts to monitor progress 
and compliance, provide individualized case planning, address emerging challenges, and connect individuals with education, 
employment, mentoring, and other supportive programs, which have proved effective even as higher risk individuals and 
those facing more serious charges continue to receive probation sentences.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
New enrollments in Alternative-to-Placement programs 94 87 83 57 74 * * Down *
® New enrollments in DOP-managed programs 1,962 1,616 1,560 1,547 1,911 * * Neutral *
Adult probationer early completion rate (%) 13% 19% 15% 8% 6% * * Down *
Adult probationer early completion approval rate (%) 90% 96% 95% 87% 82% * * Down Up
 Successful completion rate for adult probationers (%) 85% 81% 77% 76% 77% ñ ñ Down Up
 Successful completion rate for juvenile probationers (%) 92% 88% 87% 92% 93% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Human services contracts NA NA NA 32 NA * * NA *
Human services contract registration within 30 days of the contract 
start date (%) NA NA NA 88% NA * * NA Up
Total dollars disbursed for human services contracts ($000,000) NA NA NA $15.89 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
Completed requests for interpretation 7,649 10,495 10,497 12,413 11,771 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $113.1 $115.3 $106.5 $112.9 $119.6 $116.0 $105.7 Neutral
Revenues ($000) $70.7 $138.0 $120.5 $89.2 $86.7 $302.0 $302.0 Down
Personnel 977 1,014 893 869 833 1,095 1,020 Down
Overtime paid ($000) $884 $3,075 $2,947 $4,487 $2,995 $2,776 $2,776 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 104>>>
Page 92  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $77.4 $76.3
        001 - Executive Management $13.6 $14.8 All
        002 - Probation Services $63.9 $61.5 All
Other Than Personal Services - Total $35.5 $43.3
        003 - Probation Services $35.5 $43.2 All
        004 - Executive Management $0.1 $0.1 All
Agency Total $112.9 $119.6
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Sharun Goodwin was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Probation in January 2026.
• The indicators ‘Rearrests per adult who passes through supervision (%)’ and ‘Rearrests per juvenile who passes through 
supervision (%)’ in Goal 2a were removed to improve data clarity and avoid potential misrepresentation of recidivism 
trends as the Department continues to monitor supervision outcomes through more precise established metrics, 
including total rearrest counts and average monthly rearrest rates.
• The indicators ‘Completion rate for adult probationers (%)’ and ‘Completion rate for juvenile probationers (%)’ in Goal 
3a were renamed to ‘Successful completion rate for adult probationers (%)’ and ‘Successful completion rate for juvenile 
probationers (%)’ to more accurately reflect that the indicator is measuring successful outcomes for individuals under 
supervision.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• The Mayor’s Office of Contract Services’ Citywide Indicators Report:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/mocs/resources/citywide-indicator-reports.page
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/probation.
<<<PAGE 105>>>
CIVILIAN COMPLAINT  
REVIEW BOARD Jennifer Jones Austin, Chair
CIVILIAN COMPLAINT REVIEW BOARD  |  Page 93
WHAT WE DO
The Civilian Complaint Review 
Board (CCRB), also referred to as 
the Board, is an independent agency 
empowered to receive, investigate, 
prosecute, mediate, hear, make 
findings, and recommend action 
based on complaints alleging the 
use of excessive or unnecessary 
force, abuse of authority, discourtesy, 
the use of offensive language, and 
untruthful statements by New York 
City police officers. The Board’s 
investigative staff, composed entirely 
of civilian employees, conducts 
investigations in an impartial fashion. 
The Board forwards its findings and 
recommendations for disciplinary 
action to the Police Commissioner 
who has final say over officer 
discipline.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
CCRB focuses on equitable service delivery by resolving civilian complaints of police 
officer misconduct impartially and speedily, conducting outreach to the diverse 
communities of the City, and examining the policies and systemic practices that 
lead to officer misconduct and associated complaints. CCRB thoroughly investigates 
complaints, establishes findings on the merits when present, and recommends an 
effective level of discipline when officers commit misconduct. 
CCRB continues to extend its outreach to underserved communities. CCRB has 
provided greater access for individuals who cannot travel to headquarters in 
Manhattan to meet with investigators. Additionally, CCRB’s investigative team 
regularly conducts field interviews throughout the five boroughs, as well as 
on Rikers Island. The Board also convenes evening public meetings across the 
City to provide an opportunity for community members to learn more about 
CCRB and share questions or concerns about police-community relations in their 
neighborhood. CCRB’s website, which contains materials in 10 languages, allows 
the public to file complaints, track the status of their complaints, and view up-to-
date maps with the number of misconduct complaints filed in each of the 78 police 
precincts of New York City. Additionally, CCRB created the Civilian Assistance Unit 
(CAU) in Calendar 2021 to serve and support complainants, victims, and witnesses 
with special needs, particularly victims of sexual misconduct. 
CCRB seeks to ensure that communities and constituent groups most likely to be 
impacted by police misconduct are included in how CCRB conducts its work. The 
CCRB Youth Advisory Council (YAC), a 19-member working committee made up 
of young leaders ages 10–24 who are committed to criminal justice issues and 
improving police-community relations, launched in the winter of 2018. The YAC 
meets quarterly and advises CCRB staff about their efforts to engage young New 
Yorkers to serve as CCRB ambassadors, who then share information regarding the 
activities of the Board with their communities.
<<<PAGE 106>>>
Page 94  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Investigate, prosecute and resolve claims of police misconduct.
Goal 1a Improve the quality and timeliness of investigations.
Goal 1b Increase the use of mediation to resolve complaints.
Goal 1c Improve the quality and timeliness of prosecutions.
SERVICE 2 Inform and educate the public about the agency.
Goal 2a Increase outreach and education of City residents.
<<<PAGE 107>>>
CIVILIAN COMPLAINT REVIEW BOARD  |  Page 95
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Investigate, prosecute and resolve claims of police misconduct.
Goal 1a Improve the quality and timeliness of investigations.
In Fiscal 2026, CCRB received 5,679 complaints against members of the New 
York Police Department, an increase of two percent compared to the 5,575 
complaints filed in Fiscal 2025. This is the third consecutive year with more 
than 5,000 complaints received. Complaints have largely remained below this 
level since Fiscal 2014, when NYPD ended its deployment of mass stop and 
frisk tactics. However, misconduct complaints rose 35 percent in Fiscal 2023 
and have remained at historic levels since.
When CCRB receives more complaints, the Board typically opens and 
subsequently closes more cases. However, despite the high-volume of 
complaints, CCRB closed 14 percent fewer cases in Fiscal 2026 (down from 
6,372 to 5,459). Accordingly, the closure of cases by various allegation types 
also decreased in Fiscal 2026: force allegations closed decreased seven percent 
(down from 3,951 to 3,677), abuse of authority allegations closed decreased 28 
percent (down from 10,929 to 7,849), discourtesy allegations closed decreased 
30 percent (down from 1,645 to 1,146), offensive language allegations closed decreased 34 percent (down from 393 to 
258), and untruthful statement allegations closed decreased 68 percent (down from 62 to 20).
The rate of cases closed by CCRB that are classified as full investigations dropped to 34 percent in Fiscal 2026, the fourth 
consecutive year of decline. An investigation is classified as “full” when CCRB is able to gather all necessary evidence 
and conduct all required interviews. Continued high complaint volume, coupled with constraints on CCRB’s investigative 
capacity, contributed to this decline. The increase in complaints unable to be investigated by CCRB due to budgetary issues 
partially drove this decline. CCRB was unable to investigate 2,722 complaints in Fiscal 2026, which was the third consecutive 
fiscal year above 2,000 and a more than 82 percent increase from Fiscal 2023 (1,489). CCRB is unable to investigate a 
complaint when limited by budget constraints or when relevant parties (complainants, victims, witnesses) are unavailable, 
uncooperative, or unidentified. CCRB closed 48 percent fewer complaints due to an officer being unidentified, down from 
126 in Fiscal 2025 to 66 in Fiscal 2026.
Consistent with the broader decline in cases closed and full investigations, CCRB closed 23 percent fewer substantiated 
cases, dropping to 824 from the record-setting level of these closures in Fiscal 2025 (1,064). Fiscal 2025 represented the 
first instance of CCRB substantiating more than 1,000 cases. A complaint is substantiated when a three-member panel 
of the Board reviews the complaint file from a full investigation and certifies that in at least one allegation the alleged 
conduct is found to have occurred and is improper based on a preponderance of the evidence. The panel can also certify 
that there is not sufficient evidence that the officer committed the alleged act (referred to as “unfounded complaints”) or 
that the officer’s actions were determined to be lawful (referred to as “within NYPD guidelines complaints”). The decline in 
substantiated cases does not, on its own, indicate a decline in misconduct: it reflects lower investigative throughput overall, 
including a fourth consecutive year of decline in full investigations (34 percent of closures) and a rise in complaints CCRB 
was unable to investigate (up 82 percent compared to Fiscal 2023). These declines in investigative throughput occurred 
despite an increase in CCRB personnel (235 to 245 actual, with 273 authorized for Fiscal 2026), a pattern that may reflect 
caseload complexity, staff onboarding lag, and other factors. 
Investigative timeline also reflect these capacity pressures. Progress toward completing full investigations in less than a 
year further stagnated in Fiscal 2026 as the average time increased slightly from 424 days in Fiscal 2025 to 439 days in 
Fiscal 2026. This was partly a function of sustained historically high complaint volume. The average time to complete 
a substantiated investigation, however, slightly decreased to 473 days in Fiscal 2026 (which is still below the target of 
480 days).
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Total Civilian Complaints
3,483
4,700
5,644 5,575 5,679
<<<PAGE 108>>>
Page 96  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
In Fiscal 2026, NYPD had a historically high number of officers serving who have received high numbers of complaints 
across their tenure (3,967 officers have received five or more complaints and 913 officers have received ten or more). Most 
officers will receive zero to one CCRB complaint across their entire career with the NYPD. This is the highest value for both 
categories, with data going back to Fiscal 2019. The average time for NYPD to respond to requests for body-worn camera 
requests is at its highest in the last 5 fiscal years at 12 days, a 33 percent increase compared to the 9 days in Fiscal 2025.
Despite these challenges in investigative capacity, disciplinary outcomes on the cases CCRB did close improved dramatically 
in Fiscal 2026, driven by NYPD’s decision to end its prior practice of closing substantiated complaints without imposing 
discipline. The officer discipline rate increased to 93 percent, from 53 percent in Fiscal 2025. Cases with discipline returned 
increased 75 percent (up from 815 to 1,429), while cases returned without discipline fell 86 percent (down from 719 to 
101). Concurrence decisions also increased 87 percent (up from 751 to 1,407). Starting in Fiscal 2023, NYPD elected to close 
significant numbers of complaints substantiated by CCRB without imposing the recommended discipline. This dramatically 
increased the number of complaints returned without discipline and decreased concurrence rates (the rate at which NYPD 
agrees with CCRB findings and imposes recommended disciplinary action) to record lows. NYPD ended this practice in 
Fiscal 2025, contributing to the significant improvement in disciplinary outcomes in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
® Total civilian complaints against uniformed members of the New 
York City Police Department 3,483 4,700 5,644 5,575 5,679 * * Up *
Force allegations closed 2,830 2,346 2,815 3,951 3,677 * * Up *
Abuse of authority allegations closed 7,231 6,609 7,861 10,929 7,849 * * Up *
Discourtesy allegations closed 1,486 1,298 1,468 1,645 1,146 * * Neutral *
Offensive language allegations closed 293 288 310 393 258 * * Neutral *
Untruthful statement allegations closed 100 56 42 62 20 * * Down *
 Closed allegations with findings on the merits (%) 55% 66% 72% 73% 77% 55% 55% Up Up
Cases closed 3,593 4,247 5,505 6,372 5,459 * * Up *
Unable to investigate complaints closed 1,131 1,489 2,013 2,882 2,722 * * Up *
Complaint withdrawn complaints closed 258 328 366 239 218 * * Down *
Closed Pending Litigation complaints closed 254 475 560 641 605 * * Up *
Miscellaneous closure complaints closed 1 2 33 32 23 * * Up *
Substantiated complaints closed 729 715 768 1,064 824 * * Up *
Within NYPD guidelines complaints closed 241 339 410 338 239 * * Neutral *
Unfounded complaints closed 193 299 530 497 375 * * Up *
Officer Unidentified complaints closed 729 715 143 126 66 * * Down *
Unable to determine complaints closed 517 570 602 504 341 * * Down *
 Full investigations as a percentage of total cases closed (%) 52% 50% 45% 40% 34% 40% 40% Down Up
 Average time to complete a full investigation (days) 591 484 404 424 439 420 420 Down Down
Average days to first officer interview 245 199 151 161 162 * * Down *
Average days for response to body-worn camera request 6 8 8 9 12 * * Up *
 Average time to complete a substantiated investigation (days) 614 455 437 489 473 480 480 Down Down
Average age of open docket (days) 218 172 193 185 201 * * Neutral Down
 Substantiated cases in which the statute of limitations expired 
(%) 1.1% 6.0% 0.8% 0.6% 1.1% 0.0% 0.0% Down Down
Concurrence decisions returned 246 412 565 751 1,407 * * Up *
Non-concurrence decisions returned 268 489 639 783 123 * * Neutral *
Cases with discipline returned 285 441 637 815 1,429 * * Up *
Cases without discipline returned 229 460 567 719 101 * * Neutral *
Non-adjudicated cases returned 62 200 142 73 108 * * Down *
 Officers disciplined (excluding pending and filed cases) (%) 54% 47% 55% 53% 93% * * Up *
Active members of service with greater than 5 complaints 3,280 3,228 3,576 3,841 3,967 * * Up *
Active members of service with greater than 10 complaints 771 770 743 841 913 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 109>>>
CIVILIAN COMPLAINT REVIEW BOARD  |  Page 97
Goal 1b Increase the use of mediation to resolve complaints.
Civilian participation in mediation has declined for five consecutive years, reaching a record low of 13 percent in Fiscal 
2026. Satisfaction among participating civilians rose 19 percentage points to 82 percent, moving closer to the 94 percent 
target, but this improvement applies to a shrinking pool of participants. At the same time, 94 percent of members of 
service accepted mediation. Overall, there was a continued drop in the number of cases with a mutual agreement to 
mediate (down from 62 to 57). With the decreased volume of mediations, the average days to complete a mediation case 
improved 18 percent to 70 days. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cases with mutual agreement to mediate 33 127 94 62 57 * * Neutral Up
Officers who accepted mediation (%) 85% 91% 84% 89% 94% * * Neutral Up
Civilians who accepted mediation (%) 37% 36% 20% 16% 13% * * Down Up
Cases successfully mediated 119 91 74 43 44 * * Down Up
 Average mediation case completion time (days) 434 93 76 85 70 120 120 Down Down
 Mediation satisfaction rate (%) 98% 93% 69% 63% 82% 94% 94% Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Improve the quality and timeliness of prosecutions.
When the Board recommends Charges and Specifications, the highest level of discipline, CCRB’s Administrative Prosecution 
Unit (APU) prosecutes the case against the subject officer in a departmental trial in front of NYPD’s Deputy Commissioner 
of Trials. In Fiscal 2026, the APU closed 428 cases, up 38 percent from 310 in Fiscal 2025. This continued increase is part 
of the Board’s adoption of the NYPD Disciplinary Matrix during Fiscal 2024, which standardized penalties for allegations 
and sets forth categories of cases that automatically go to the APU and subsequently increased the APU’s overall caseload. 
The number of APU cases closed by plea more than doubled to 331 in Fiscal 2026, up from 159 pleas in Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Administrative prosecution cases closed — Total 63 187 380 310 428 * * Up *
– By trial 24 28 59 36 36 * * Up *
– By plea 7 40 157 159 331 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Inform and educate the public about the agency.
Goal 2a Increase outreach and education of City residents.
CCRB’s Outreach team conducted 874 outreach presentations across Fiscal 2026, down slightly from 920 presentations 
across Fiscal 2025. CCRB Outreach presentations vary yearly based on outreach strategy and efforts to locate groups likely 
to witness or have been subject to misconduct by NYPD police officers.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Outreach presentations conducted 853 1,039 1,134 920 874 ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 110>>>
Page 98  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 299 268 251 176 177 * * Down *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 73% 63% 63% 64% 53% * * Down Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 69% 94% 97% 87% 89% * * Up Up
CORE facility rating 98 95 NA 100 100 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $21.5 $23.7 $25.9 $27.3 $29.4 $29.4 $32.9 Up
Personnel 217 230 227 235 245 273 278 Up
Overtime paid ($000) $263 $293 $386 $342 $415 $300 $315 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None 
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        001 - Personal Services $22.1 $24.1 All
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $5.2 $5.3 All
Agency Total $27.3 $29.4 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.
<<<PAGE 111>>>
CIVILIAN COMPLAINT REVIEW BOARD  |  Page 99
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Jennifer Jones Austin was appointed as Chair of the Civilian Complaint Review Board in July 2026.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Monthly Statistics: 
http://www1.nyc.gov/site/ccrb/policy/monthly-statistical-reports.page 
• File Complaints Online: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/ccrb/complaints/file-complaint.page 
• Status of Complaints: 
https://apps.nyc.gov/ccrb-status-lookup/
• Administrative Trials: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/ccrb/complaints/complaint-process/prosecutionnew.page
• Maps of Complaints in Each Precinct: 
http://www1.nyc.gov/site/ccrb/policy/complaint-activity-map.page 
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/ccrb.
<<<PAGE 112>>>
Page 100  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 113>>>
LAW DEPARTMENT  
Steven Banks, Corporation Counsel
LAW DEPARTMENT  |  Page 101
WHAT WE DO
The Law Department is responsible 
for all of the legal matters affecting 
the City. The Department represents 
New York City, the Mayor, the City 
Council, other elected officials, and 
the City’s agencies in all affirmative 
and defensive civil litigation. The 
Department represents the City in 
juvenile delinquency prosecutions 
brought in Family Court, as well as 
in Administrative Code enforcement 
proceedings brought in Criminal 
Court. Law Department attorneys 
draft and review local and New 
York State legislation, real estate 
leases, procurement contracts, and 
financial instruments for the sale of 
municipal bonds. The Department 
also provides legal counsel to City 
officials on a wide range of issues 
such as civil rights, education, 
intellectual property, land use, and 
environmental policy.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
The Law Department’s lawyers and support professionals work collaboratively 
to pursue justice while providing the City with the highest quality legal 
representation. Department staff are expected to treat all whom they encounter 
in litigation with professionalism, respect, and empathy, even as they vigorously 
pursue all appropriate legal defenses and claims in the best interests of the City. 
The Department acts to ensure that unrepresented claimants are treated fairly, 
explaining in plain language discovery orders and other documents. 
The Family Court Division conducts outreach to victims in delinquency cases to 
ensure that they are offered necessary services and personal protection, refers 
youth and families to community-based diversion programs, and advocates for 
supervision and treatment services that rehabilitate young offenders in a manner 
consistent with public safety. The Department also brings affirmative litigation that 
advances vital interests of the City and works with other agencies to manage the 
risks involved in large scale and widespread government operations. 
The Law Department advises agency clients on a wide range of issues affecting 
public safety and welfare, including the areas of education, health, housing, social 
services, environment, economic development, and law enforcement. Department 
attorneys play an important role in drafting legislation that advances significant 
City policies, including the protection of the civil rights of its residents.
<<<PAGE 114>>>
Page 102  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Represent the City of New York in litigation and other legal matters involving the City’s 
interests.
Goal 1a Limit the City’s liability as a result of claims.
Goal 1b Reduce the City’s caseload in State court.
Goal 1c Reduce the City’s caseload in federal court.
SERVICE 2 Prosecute juvenile delinquency cases in Family Court.
Goal 2a Balance the needs of juveniles and the community in delinquency cases.
SERVICE 3 Establish and enforce child support orders in interstate cases.
Goal 3a Increase the percentage of out-of-state families that receive child support.
<<<PAGE 115>>>
LAW DEPARTMENT  |  Page 103
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Represent the City of New York in litigation and other legal matters involving the City’s 
interests.
Goal 1a Limit the City’s liability as a result of claims.
In Fiscal 2026, cases commenced against the City in State court decreased by six percent compared to Fiscal 2025, down 
to 9,245 in Fiscal 2026 compared to 9,802 in Fiscal 2025. The decrease in cases commenced could be influenced by 
the Gender Motivated Violence Act lookback window having lapsed in February 2025, as cases filed under the Gender 
Motivated Violence Act contributed to increases in case volume in preceding fiscal years. 
Historically, initial figures for ‘Total citywide payout for judgment and claims ($000)’ were provided by the Law Department 
in the Mayor’s Management Report (MMR), while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management and 
Budget (OMB) in the following Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR). OMB uses a different process and 
timeline to determine the finalized audited amount disbursed by the City. To clarify reporting, the Law Department will 
no longer report the initial value in MMR. The finalized audited amount will be reported in the PMMR only.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total citywide payout for judgments and claims ($000) $794,702 $1,208,576 $1,516,776 $1,376,184 NA ò ò NA Down
 Total cases commenced against the City 8,284 8,812 10,359 10,647 10,125 * * Up *
– Cases commenced against the City in state court 7,586 8,151 9,540 9,802 9,245 7,600 7,600 Up *
– Cases commenced against the City in federal court 698 661 819 845 879 1,050 1,050 Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Reduce the City’s caseload in State court.
In Fiscal 2026, the Department continued its focus on early settlement of meritorious claims and rigorous defense of matters 
lacking legal merit. Some of the results of these efforts can be seen in the moderate increases in recent years in both the 
number of affirmative motions to dismiss or for summary judgment filed as well as in the win rate on affirmative motions. 
In Fiscal 2026, the Tort Division increased the volume of affirmative motions to dismiss or for summary judgment filings 
from 910 to 922 motions, continuing a pattern of sustained growth since COVID-19 pandemic-related interruptions to 
court activities. The win rate on these motions climbed by two percentage points to 78 percent compared to 76 percent in 
Fiscal 2025. Total pending cases on the trial calendar increased by 19 percent, from 2,753 in Fiscal 2025 to 3,262 in Fiscal 
2026, trending up for the fifth consecutive year.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Cases pending in State court 26,732 29,392 32,873 36,035 39,249 23,700 23,700 Up Down
– Cases pending on trial calendar 2,442 2,142 2,332 2,753 3,262 2,700 2,700 Up *
Affirmative motions to dismiss or for summary judgment 645 631 789 910 922 * * Up *
 Win rate on affirmative motions (%) 85% 79% 70% 76% 78% 78% 78% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 116>>>
Page 104  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1c Reduce the City’s caseload in federal court.
In Fiscal 2026, 123 federal cases resulted in favorable outcomes through verdicts, dismissals, or discontinuances, a 43 
percent increase compared to the 86 secured in Fiscal 2025. The increase is due, in part, to the Special Federal Litigation 
Division’s strategic targeting of cases for disposition via motion practice and trials.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Cases pending in federal court 770 646 624 674 673 1,150 1,150 Neutral Down
Dismissals and discontinuances 142 139 93 86 123 * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Prosecute juvenile delinquency cases in Family Court.
Goal 2a Balance the needs of juveniles and the community in delinquency cases.
Juvenile delinquency matters involve youth ages 12 to 17 who have been arrested for conduct that would constitute a 
crime if they were adults. This includes those cases that have been removed from the Youth Part, the part of the Supreme 
Court in New York City that has jurisdiction over juvenile and adolescent offender proceedings, and assigned instead to the 
Family Court. In prosecuting juvenile delinquency matters, Law Department staff work to ensure that youth who commit 
delinquent acts are held accountable but receive appropriate services to avert repeated involvement with the juvenile 
justice system. The law mandates an outcome that balances both the need for the protection of the community with the 
needs and best interests of the youth. The Department’s Family Court Division’s work also includes providing information to 
victims on available community-based services, including counseling, crisis intervention, and safety planning. In Fiscal 2026, 
the percentage of victims of juvenile delinquency-related crimes referred for community-based services increased by nine 
percentage points to 47 percent of victims. This metric captures the percentage of victims who accepted services, which 
depends on their individual needs and decisions. Referred cases filed for prosecution in Family Court remained stable in 
Fiscal 2026 as compared to the prior year. Juveniles successfully referred to a diversion program with no new delinquency 
referral within one year increased by four percentage points compared to Fiscal 2025. The juvenile conviction rate remains 
below the 75-percent target for Fiscal 2026, at 69 percent, a two percentage-point drop from Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Referred cases filed for prosecution (%) 35% 33% 31% 38% 38% 55% 55% Up *
Juvenile conviction rate (%) 75% 75% 75% 71% 69% 75% 75% Neutral *
 Juveniles successfully referred to a diversion program with no 
new delinquency referral within one year (%) 89% 82% 84% 73% 77% 75% 75% Down Up
Crime victims referred for community-based services (%) 52% 46% 41% 38% 47% 45% 45% Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 117>>>
LAW DEPARTMENT  |  Page 105
SERVICE 3 Establish and enforce child support orders in interstate cases.
Goal 3a Increase the percentage of out-of-state families that receive child support.
Law Department attorneys appear in New York City Family Courts to handle petitions to establish parentage, and obtain, 
modify, or enforce an existing child support order, including defending against challenges to the registrations of orders from 
another state or country. Most cases are filed under the Uniform Interstate Family Support Act by out-of-state jurisdictions 
for custodial parents residing in other states, U.S. Commonwealths, and foreign countries. Filing of enforcement referrals 
within 60 days of referral reached 99 percent for this reporting period, an increase of four percentage points over the prior 
year. Additionally, in Fiscal 2026, the percentage of families entitled to a support order that get a support order increased 
by three percentage points, up from 72 percent in the prior fiscal year to 75 percent. This metric is subject to fluctuations 
due to factors such as obtaining jurisdiction over the non-custodial parent and the desire of the family members who are 
entitled to a support order to continue the process for pursuing them after initial filing. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Filing of enforcement referrals within 60 days of referral (%) 96% 99% 96% 95% 99% 90% 90% Neutral Up
 Families entitled to a support order that get a support order 
(%) 62% 83% 74% 72% 75% 65% 65% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 703 968 1,025 1,086 1,601 * * Up *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 38% 93% 100% 100% * * Up Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $264.6 $271.3 $325.3 $336.3 $329.9 $327.0 $383.0 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $18.0 $18.4 $65.4 $20.5 $45.9 $23.7 $18.0 Down
Personnel 1,530 1,462 1,482 1,502 1,544 1,687 1,880 Down
Overtime paid ($000) $1,817 $2,632 $2,296 $2,692 $2,457 $2,131 $2,131 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 118>>>
Page 106  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        001 - Personal Services $165.1 $175.5 All
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $171.1 $154.4 All
Agency Total $336.3 $329.9 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter. 
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Steven Banks was appointed as Corporation Counsel of the Law Department in January 2026. 
• Beginning in Fiscal 2026, ‘Total citywide payout for judgments and claims ($000)’ will only be reported as final, audited 
data in the PMMR, rather than as an initial estimate in the MMR. Historically, initial fiscal year figures for this indicator 
were provided by the Law Department in the MMR, while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management 
and Budget (OMB) in the following PMMR. OMB uses a different process and timeline to determine the finalized 
audited amount disbursed by the City, prompting this change to clarify reporting.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/law.
<<<PAGE 119>>>
DEPARTMENT OF  
INVESTIGATION Nadia I. Shihata, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF INVESTIGATION  |  Page 107
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Investigation 
(DOI) is a law enforcement agency 
that promotes and maintains 
integrity and efficiency in City 
government by investigating alleged 
corruption, gross mismanagement, 
waste, and abuse by City agencies, 
entities, employees and contractors. 
DOI has oversight of more than 45 
mayoral agencies with over 300,000 
employees, as well as dozens of 
City boards and commissions. DOI 
attacks corruption comprehensively 
through investigations that lead 
to arrests, public reports, and 
recommendations for policy and 
procedural reforms intended to 
strengthen agencies’ internal controls 
and improve their operations. DOI 
is guided by a mission to hold 
wrongdoers accountable—whether 
public officials, City employees, 
contractors, or other third parties, 
thereby improving the way City 
government functions. In so doing, 
DOI serves New Yorkers by acting 
as an independent and nonpartisan 
watchdog for City government.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
The corruption exposed by DOI can threaten the availability of resources for New 
Yorkers as well as equitable access to government services. DOI holds individuals 
engaged in misconduct to account and returns stolen funds to the City, to workers, 
and to other victims. DOI also provides Policy and Procedure Recommendations 
(PPRs) to City agencies to remedy vulnerabilities identified by DOI investigations, 
to improve how City agencies operate, and to prevent future misconduct so 
that City government can more equitably serve all New Yorkers. DOI also issues 
public reports regarding its investigative findings and recommendations for 
reform. Reports published in Fiscal 2026 covered agency compliance with local 
laws restricting City assistance with immigration enforcement, theft involving 
pension funds managed by the New York City Employees’ Retirement System, 
and the “skimming” of electronic benefit transfer cards. Where relevant, DOI’s 
public reports also included PPRs issued by DOI to strengthen internal controls and 
prevent future fraud and corruption vulnerabilities.
DOI follows the facts and the law, without fear or favor and regardless of politics, 
influence, or position. Through independent investigations, DOI ensures that 
wrongdoers who misappropriate public dollars, circumvent City rules to evade 
safety regulations, or undermine City operations for personal profit, are held 
accountable. 
Investigations highlight the impact that corruption, fraud, and other forms of 
wrongdoing have on the City. Investigations in Fiscal 2026 resulted in the following: 
(1) the final convictions of 70 current and former New York City Housing Authority 
employees on charges related to bribery, fraud, and extortion, with the defendants 
collectively ordered to pay over $2.1 million in restitution and forfeit over $2 million 
in criminal proceeds; (2) a Bronx man pleading guilty to stealing nine adoption 
subsidy checks intended to support adoptive families and children in foster care; (3) 
the former executive director of a legal services non-profit pleading guilty to fraud 
after diverting hundreds of thousands of dollars in funding intended for indigent 
residents; (4) a former New York City Police Department official in the School 
Safety Division and a Florida businessman being charged with bribery offenses; (5) 
a former supervisor at the Department of Buildings being charged with accepting 
more than $75,000 in bribes from three construction-industry company owners; (6) 
several real estate developers and their corporations pleading guilty to defrauding 
New York State’s 421-a tax exemption program meant to promote affordable 
housing, collectively obtaining more than $1.6 million in illegal tax benefits, with 
the plea agreements resulting in restitution and agreements for the developers 
to produce additional affordable housing; (7) a former chief executive officer at a 
non-profit homeless services provider being sentenced to prison and ordered to 
pay nearly $9 million in restitution and forfeiture on charges related to a scheme to 
defraud the City of over $50 million through inflated prices for goods and services; 
and (8) a former chief of staff under the prior mayoral administration and three 
others being charged in a bribery scheme related to a City migrant shelter contract.
<<<PAGE 120>>>
Page 108  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Protect public resources from corruption, fraud, waste, and abuse and ensure that City 
employees and vendors act with integrity.
Goal 1a Investigate potential corruption, fraud, waste, abuse, and unethical conduct to improve the integrity of City 
operations.
Goal 1b Improve the impact and effectiveness of investigations.
SERVICE 2 Conduct background and fingerprint checks for certain City employees, contractors and child 
care workers.
Goal 2a Ensure that all background investigations and fingerprint checks are conducted in a timely manner.
<<<PAGE 121>>>
DEPARTMENT OF INVESTIGATION  |  Page 109
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Protect public resources from corruption, fraud, waste, and abuse and ensure that City 
employees and vendors act with integrity.
Goal 1a Investigate potential corruption, fraud, waste, abuse, and unethical conduct to improve the integrity of 
City operations.
In Fiscal 2026, DOI investigations resulted in the issuance of 130 policy and procedure recommendations (PPRs) to agencies 
to combat fraud, waste, and abuse. While this is a decrease from the 158 PPRs issued by DOI in Fiscal 2025, the issuance of 
PPRs is dependent on the facts uncovered in an investigation and not all investigations result in PPRs. The rate of acceptance, 
implementation, rejection, as well as the rate of pending PPRs remained relatively consistent from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026.
The number of corruption prevention and whistleblower lectures decreased by 45 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 
2025 (down from 298 to 163) but still exceeded the target of 100 lectures. This decrease is partially due to DOI’s staffing 
challenges. The number of corruption prevention lecture online e-learning attendees rose by 10 percent (from 16,666 to 
18,282). 
The Integrity Monitor Program provides a method for the City to enter into or continue contracts with companies that might 
otherwise be precluded from doing business with the City due to integrity issues. Under the Integrity Monitor Program, 
these companies may be awarded City contracts if they agree to be monitored by an outside, independent monitor that 
reports to DOI, and to take other steps to ensure they have the requisite business integrity. The program also includes 
proactive programmatic monitorships, which allow the City to prevent or reduce fraud, waste, and abuse on large-scale 
projects. The number of monitorships fluctuates based on the needs of the City and the duration of the monitorships. DOI 
was engaged in eight monitorships in Fiscal 2026, down from 10 in Fiscal 2025. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Complaints 12,317 13,566 14,612 14,512 15,450 * * Up *
 Written Policy and Procedure Recommendations issued to City 
agencies 276 123 212 158 130 * * Down *
Written Policy and Procedure Recommendations issued during previ -
ous fiscal years that have been accepted by City agencies (%) 87% 87% 87% 87% 88% 75% 75% Neutral Up
– Written Policy and Procedure Recommendations issued during 
previous fiscal years that have been implemented of those accepted 
by City agencies (%) 86% 87% 88% 91% 91% * * Neutral Up
Written Policy and Procedure Recommendations issued during 
previous fiscal years that are still pending an outcome from City 
agencies (%) 8% 5% 7% 6% 5% * * Down *
Written Policy and Procedure Recommendations issued during previ -
ous fiscal years that have been rejected by City agencies (%) 4% 5% 6% 6% 7% * * Up *
 Corruption prevention and whistleblower lectures conducted 72 240 236 298 163 100 100 Up Up
Corruption prevention lecture e-learning attendees 23,395 29,245 27,351 16,666 18,282 * * Down *
Integrity monitoring agreements 12 12 12 10 8 * * Down *
Vendor name checks completed within 30 days (%) 93% 97% 97% 91% 94% 85% 85% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 122>>>
Page 110  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1b Improve the impact and effectiveness of investigations.
In Fiscal 2026, the average time to complete an investigation increased 24 percent compared to Fiscal 2025 (up from 251 
days to 312 days), continuing an overall upward trend in recent years above the 180-day target. However, DOI investigations 
follow the facts and the time it takes to complete an investigation is determined by various factors, including staffing levels, 
available resources, and case complexity. 
Investigative findings determine the outcome of a case, which may include a referral to a prosecutor that results in an arrest, 
a civil referral, or an administrative referral to a City agency to take any disciplinary action it deems appropriate. Cases 
resulting in civil and administrative action in Fiscal 2026 decreased 16 percent (down from 495 to 414) and resulted in 19 
percent fewer arrests (down from 220 to 178). Similarly, referrals for criminal prosecution decreased 54 percent (from 287 
to 131) and the number of active investigations decreased 44 percent (from 1,515 to 850). However, part of this decrease 
may be a result of DOI’s new case management system. Historically, each individual subject of an investigation was captured 
as a separate criminal referral. In the current system, however, each investigation, including those with multiple subjects, 
is captured as just one criminal referral. In addition, the previous system provided the number of active investigations that 
were actively worked on in a given timeframe. The current system, on the other hand, captures only the number of active 
investigations on the last day of the reporting period. A future review of Fiscal 2026 and Fiscal 2027 data will provide a 
more precise analysis of year-to-year averages. 
When investigations uncover fiscal losses, either for the City or other entities/individuals impacted by an investigation, DOI 
attempts to recover those funds. Financial recoveries are generally outside of DOI’s control and dependent on the investigation 
and court orders, but DOI actively advocates with prosecuting partners to recoup those funds where appropriate. In Fiscal 
2026, financial recoveries ordered/agreed to be paid to the City more than doubled from Fiscal 2025 (from $4,165,000 
to $9,160,000), financial recoveries collected for the City more than quadrupled (from $1,537,000 to $6,668,000), and 
financial recoveries ordered/agreed to be paid to individuals and non-City entities more than quadrupled (from $2,058,000 to 
$8,564,000). These increases are largely attributable to specific large-scale recoveries. For example, a June 2026 case resulted 
in a $7,688,000 order for restitution to the City, a September 2025 case resulted in a $4,679,000 order for restitution and 
forfeiture to non-City entities, and a July 2025 case resulted in the City being reimbursed $4,696,000.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average time to complete an investigation (days) 213 201 214 251 312 180 180 Up Down
Active Investigations 1,549 1,618 1,619 1,515 850 * * Down *
Closed investigations 803 878 895 806 858 * * Neutral Up
 Referrals for civil and administrative action 984 918 796 495 414 * * Down *
 Referrals for criminal prosecution 415 425 449 287 131 * * Down *
 Arrests resulting from DOI investigations 288 313 349 220 178 * * Down *
 Financial recoveries to the City ordered/agreed ($000) $1,863.2 $10,121.0 $4,805.0 $4,165.0 $9,160.0 * * Up *
 Financial recoveries to the City collected ($000) $7,017.5 $2,118.0 $2,192.0 $1,537.0 $6,668.0 * * Down *
Financial recoveries to individuals and non-City entities ordered/
agreed ($000) $3,810.0 $2,063.0 $375.0 $2,058.0 $8,564.0 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 123>>>
DEPARTMENT OF INVESTIGATION  |  Page 111
SERVICE 2 Conduct background and fingerprint checks for certain City employees, contractors and child 
care workers.
Goal 2a Ensure that all background investigations and fingerprint checks are conducted in a timely manner.
In Fiscal 2026, DOI cleared the pre-July 1, 2019 background investigation backlog, which had totaled nearly 6,200 
investigations when tracking began in Fiscal 2020. For those backgrounds received on or after July 1, 2019, the average 
time to complete a background investigation rose from 116 days in Fiscal 2025 to 144 days in Fiscal 2026 but remained 
below the goal of 180 days. The percentage of background investigations received and closed within six months fell 37 
percentage points to 61 percent, due to staffing shortages and the transition to a new mayoral administration. The transition 
resulted in a marked increase in background investigations received and processed by the unit.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average time to complete a background investigation (from date 
of receipt) (days)  71 119 115 116 144 180 180 Up Down
Closed background investigations (of those opened on or after July 
1, 2019) 1,386 1,712 1,714 1,256 1,305 * * Down *
Background investigations received and closed within 6 months (%) 99% 99% 99% 98% 61% 80% 80% Down Up
Backlogged background investigations closed during the reporting 
period 1,443 547 369 275 85 * * Down *
Backlogged background investigations remaining open 1,276 729 360 85 0 * * Down *
Time to notify the Department of Mental Health and Hygiene of 
arrest notifications for current child care workers after receipt from 
the State Division of Criminal Justice Services (days) 1 1 1 1 1 * * Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
Average wait time to speak with a customer service agent (minutes) 3 3 3 3 3 * * Neutral Down
CORE facility rating NA NA NA 100 NA * * NA Up
Completed requests for interpretation 9 20 87 15 73 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $49.9 $47.7 $55.7 $57.7 $65.6 $64.1 $60.0 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $2.6 $2.8 $3.5 $3.5 $4.1 $4.2 $4.2 Up
Personnel 287 272 273 264 282 314 290 Down
Overtime paid ($000) $377 $372 $447 $445 $107 $107 $107 Neutral
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 124>>>
Page 112  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $27.6 $31.2 
        001 - Personal Services $22.1 $24.6 All
        003 - Inspector General $5.5 $6.6 All
Other Than Personal Services - Total $30.1 $34.4 
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $29.3 $31.3 All
        004 - Inspector General $0.8 $3.1 All
Agency Total $57.7 $65.6 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.  
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Nadia I. Shihata was appointed as Commissioner of the Department of Investigation in April 2026.
• Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Complaints’ in Goal 1a was changed from 14,435 to 14,512 and ‘Corruption prevention lecture 
e-learning attendees’ in Goal 1a was changed from 16,724 to 16,666 to reflect updated data.
• Fiscal 2026 data for ‘Core facility rating’ is unavailable and marked as NA, because DOI no longer has any facilities that 
qualify as service centers where the public received services or information.
• In February 2025, DOI began using a new case management system. As a result, several data points are captured 
differently in the new system than they were in the prior system. For example, DOI’s new case management system 
changed how two Goal 1b indicators are captured. Under the current system, each investigation, including those with 
multiple subjects, is counted as a single criminal referral. The previous system counted each subject separately. Active 
investigations are now captured as a point-in-time count on the last day of the reporting period, whereas the previous 
system counted investigations actively worked during the period. These changes affect year-over-year comparability for 
‘Referrals for criminal prosecution’ and ‘Active investigations.’
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Reports:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/doi/newsroom/public-reports-current.page
• DOI’s Office of the Inspector General for NYPD:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/doi/oignypd/web/oignypd.page
• Report Corruption:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/doi/report/report-corruption.page
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/doi.
<<<PAGE 125>>>
CITY COMMISSION ON HUMAN 
RIGHTS Christine Clarke, Commissioner and Chair
CITY COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS  |  Page 113
WHAT WE DO
The New York City Commission on Human 
Rights (CCHR or the Commission) enforces 
the New York City Human Rights Law 
(NYCHRL or the law) and educates the 
public about their rights and responsibilities 
under the NYCHRL. The NYCHRL prohibits 
discrimination in employment, housing, and 
public accommodations, and is one of the most 
comprehensive anti-discrimination laws in the 
country. CCHR achieves its mission through its 
law enforcement, community education and 
partnerships, media, and policy initiatives. In 
Fiscal 2026, CCHR underwent an Agency-wide 
reorganization designed to better achieve those 
goals. 
CCHR’s Office of Civil Rights Enforcement 
(OCRE) replaced the Law Enforcement Bureau 
(LEB) in receiving complaints from the public, 
impartially investigating alleged violations of 
the law; negotiating and resolving matters; 
providing early intervention in cases of ongoing 
discrimination and retaliation, ensuring 
reasonable accommodations are made when 
necessary; and, where appropriate, trying cases 
before an independent administrative judge. 
OCRE has significantly expanded capacity 
compared with LEB in both intake and outreach 
operations, investigations personnel, as well as 
the Commission’s Strategic Enforcement Unit. 
Mediation services are offered through the 
Office of Mediation and Conflict Resolution 
(OMCR). 
CCHR’s newly formed Civil Rights Education 
unit under OCRE creates accessible trainings 
and educational materials tailored to 
different audiences including the City’s small 
businesses, workers, and tenants. CCHR’s 
new office of Community Partnerships, part 
of the Agency’s External Affairs department, 
helps the Commission engage in strategic 
and sustained relationship-building with 
stakeholders throughout the City, including 
community- and faith-based organizations, 
advocacy organizations, and small businesses. 
The Policy and Legislative Affairs unit 
convenes stakeholders, coordinates with 
other City, State, and federal partners and 
stakeholders, collaborates with OCRE and 
the Communications department on public 
campaigns, provides legal guidance documents, 
and works with the Chair to issue final Decisions 
and Orders on cases before the Commission.  
FOCUS ON EQUITY
Equity remains central to CCHR’s work and is the core focus of the Commission’s 
enforcement and public education activities. CCHR’s efforts to eradicate unlawful 
discrimination in New York City are aimed at ensuring that New Yorkers have equal 
opportunities in housing, employment, and public accommodations, regardless 
of their ability or disability, gender identity or sexual orientation, race, religion, 
and more. Some of the most common forms of discrimination reported to CCHR 
include housing and housing voucher discrimination, disability discrimination, and 
gender discrimination. 
CCHR continues to respond to the increase in reports of gender discrimination, 
including disparate pay or other disparate treatment in employment, discrimination 
based on gender identity or expression in housing or employment, complaints 
of sexual harassment, and more. The NYCHRL provides some of the strongest 
protections in the nation against gender-based discrimination in employment, 
including protections based on gender identity, gender expression, and pregnancy. 
CCHR also works to eliminate barriers that impede women’s access to employment, 
promotions, and leadership roles. 
The Commission is prioritizing strategic, targeted enforcement to promote equity, 
as well as more targeted outreach, including with community-based organizations 
seeking to promote equity on behalf of their communities and members. CCHR 
is also prioritizing outreach to small businesses to ensure that smaller family- and/
or immigrant-owned businesses have a fair opportunity to learn about and be 
compliant with the NYCHRL. 
<<<PAGE 126>>>
Page 114  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Enforce the NYC Human Rights Law.
Goal 1a Investigate, prosecute and resolve complaints of discrimination, discriminatory harassment, and bias-based 
profiling in a timely and efficient manner.
SERVICE 2 Educate the community on the NYC Human Rights Law.
Goal 2a Increase community awareness of the NYCHRL through workshops, campaigns, hearings, and outreach 
aimed at the general public, employers, small businesses, and housing providers.
<<<PAGE 127>>>
CITY COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS  |  Page 115
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Enforce the NYC Human Rights Law.
Goal 1a Investigate, prosecute and resolve complaints of discrimination, discriminatory harassment, and bias-
based profiling in a timely and efficient manner.
In Fiscal 2026, the number of inquiries that the Commission received 
that described alleged violations of the NYCHRL decreased by six 
percent to 14,618 inquiries from 15,532 received during Fiscal 
2025. While down from last fiscal year, this remains the second 
highest volume of inquiries on record since this metric was first 
tracked in Fiscal 2018. The decrease is partly due to federal policies 
and rhetoric that spread misinformation about anti-discrimination 
practices and create a climate of fear that discourages people from 
reporting discrimination. In contrast, matters initiated, which are 
the total number of Commission-initiated cases or public inquiries 
that require follow-up or other action from CCHR, increased by 21 
percent to 1,445 in Fiscal 2026, while the number of complaints 
filed for investigation grew 15 percent to 455. These increases are 
due in part to shorter wait times for intake appointments resulting 
from expanded intake capacity.
In the latter half of Fiscal 2026, CCHR undertook several structural 
changes as a result of the Agency’s leadership transition. This restructuring included an investment in more robust and strategic 
enforcement and public education efforts, however, it also caused case resolution metrics to decline slightly as staff resources 
were temporarily devoted to internal organizational priorities. Because of this, referrals to the Office of Administrative Trials 
and Hearings (OATH) decreased from 16 cases in Fiscal 2025 to nine cases in Fiscal 2026 and the number of complaints 
closed fell from 379 cases to 315 cases. As staff resume normal casework activity in Fiscal 2027, the expected results of the 
restructuring will be that more people obtain justice more quickly and that the Agency engages in more targeted and strategic 
outreach and public education.
In addition to staff being temporarily diverted for internal restructuring, CCHR was more significantly affected by federal 
priorities in Fiscal 2026 than in prior years. As the federal government increasingly targeted immigrants, trans individuals, 
and other marginalized groups across the country, those same groups felt increasingly afraid of interacting with any type 
of government, including the City. As the federal government became more openly hostile to enforcing federal civil rights 
laws, resources previously shared with CCHR as part of a dual-filing agreement—an administrative arrangement between the 
U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission and local or state Fair Employment Practices Agencies like New York City’s 
CCHR—shrank significantly. Moreover, the federal administration’s shift in priorities away from civil rights also emboldened 
more businesses to deprioritize these laws, deterring them from engaging in early mediation as frequently as in prior years.
While operating under these conditions, the average age of the complaint caseload expectedly increased, up seven percent 
from Fiscal 2025 to 659 days in Fiscal 2026, with the number of cases open for less than one year increasing 11 percent to 392 
cases. In addition to staff temporarily prioritizing internal reorganization work, these increases in case processing times were 
also due to an increase in the Commission’s active caseload, with open matters reaching 1,808 and open complaints totaling 
1,054 in Fiscal 2026, representing increases of 33 percent and 20 percent, respectively, from the previous fiscal year. Together, 
these figures indicate sustained growth in CCHR’s enforcement workload despite a decline in overall reports of discrimination.
For these same reasons, CCHR also saw a decline in cases successfully mediated, which dropped from 17 cases in Fiscal 2025 to 
12 in Fiscal 2026, and the number of pre-complaint resolutions, which decreased from 327 to 280. Pre-complaint intervention 
work offers parties the option to reach an amicable solution without filing a complaint and engaging in an investigation and 
litigation. In Fiscal 2027, the Commission will revamp and expand its mediations program to make it more accessible to different 
types of litigants with the goal of reversing this trend. However, throughout this period, the Commission continued pushing 
through a small number of staff- and time-intensive strategic litigation around source-of-income discrimination affecting 
significant numbers of New Yorkers. These cases are likely to conclude, whether through trial or settlement, in Fiscal 2027.
FY26FY25FY24FY23FY22
Complaints ﬁled vs. Complaints closed
455
667
318
471
340
447
397 379366
315
Complaints closedComplaints ﬁled
<<<PAGE 128>>>
Page 116  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
CCHR secured 104 modifications for people with disabilities in Fiscal 2026, which includes changes to housing accommodations, 
public accommodations, and workplaces to allow for accessibility. This is a 70 percent increase compared to the 61 secured 
in Fiscal 2025. This increase is driven in part by the expanded capacity within CCHR’s Project Equal Access, which focuses on 
disability access. Disability-related modifications remain a key area of work for the Commission. 
The combined effort from CCHR’s OCRE and OMCR accounted for $2,917,895 in damages paid to complainants and $458,000 
in civil penalties paid to the City due to violations of the NYCHRL in Fiscal 2026. This is an 83 percent and 74 percent decrease, 
respectively, from Fiscal 2025. This decline largely reflects the exceptional outcomes achieved in the previous fiscal year. In 
Fiscal 2025, CCHR resolved several record-setting cases that resulted in unusually high monetary awards and penalties, making 
those figures atypical of a standard enforcement year. Although Fiscal 2026 damages totals were lower than the historic results 
achieved in Fiscal 2025, they continued to provide meaningful financial relief for New Yorkers and reinforce accountability for 
violations of the City’s Human Rights Law.
CCHR continued to dedicate resources to strategic enforcement of the NYCHRL through testing and other means. Testing is an 
investigative tool used in civil rights matters to confirm whether potential employers, landlords, real estate brokers, restaurants, 
hospitals, stores, or other providers of public accommodations treat CCHR testers differently, or provide them with different 
information, because they belong to a protected class. In Fiscal 2026, CCHR’s testing program experienced improvements 
across several key metrics as the Commission continued to strengthen its strategic testing approach and direct testing resources 
toward priority areas of enforcement. As a result, tests attempted increased by seven percent and tests completed increased 
by eight percent from Fiscal 2025 to 1,441 and 1,278 tests, respectively, in Fiscal 2026. The number of entities tested also 
increased from 969 to 986 and the testing completion rate remained stable at 89 percent.
In Fiscal 2026, InfoLine staff, who provide front line responses to the public and are frequently the first point of contact with 
the Commission, assisted 476 walk-ins—people without scheduled appointments who visit any Commission office seeking 
information or service, 93 percent more than in Fiscal 2025. They also received six percent more phone calls, up from 20,349 
to 21,629. The increase in walk-ins largely reflects a return to expected levels from a low in Fiscal 2025, when CCHR assisted 
only 246 walk-ins. Together with the six percent increase in calls, these figures reflect increased use of CCHR’s in-person and 
telephone service channels.
<<<PAGE 129>>>
CITY COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS  |  Page 117
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Inquiries received 11,942 12,190 13,630 15,532 14,618 * * Up *
Matters initiated 449 801 868 1,196 1,445 * * Up *
 ® Complaints filed 318 340 366 397 455 * * Up *
Complaints referred to the Office of Administrative Trials 
and Hearings 4 1 23 16 9 * * Up *
Complaints closed 667 471 447 379 315 * * Down *
– Complaints closed (%) - no probable cause determina -
tion 0% 0% 1% 1% 1% * * Neutral *
– Complaints closed (%) - probable cause determination 13% 25% 16% 18% 22% * * Up *
– Complaints closed (%) - administrative cause 56% 42% 40% 44% 48% * * Down *
– Complaints closed (%) - settlement 31% 33% 43% 37% 29% * * Neutral *
 Average age of complaint caseload (days) 503 514 593 614 659 * * Up *
Complaints pending by age — less than one year 268 302 284 354 392 * * Up *
Open matters 1,555 1,180 1,206 1,358 1,808 * * Up *
Open complaints 773 733 762 881 1,054 * * Up *
Complaints successfully mediated 45 28 31 17 12 * * Down Up
Average days to completion for an Office of Mediation 
and Conflict Resolution case 124 117 112 107 103 * * Down Down
Pre-complaint resolutions 196 347 307 327 280 * * Up Up
Modifications for accessibility for people with disabilities 27 111 85 61 104 * * Up *
Value of damages for complainants ($) $6,166,414 $4,679,207 $4,047,283 $17,004,122 $2,917,895 * * Up *
Value of civil penalties imposed ($) $878,500 $887,500 $633,200 $1,780,500 $458,000 * * Neutral *
Tests attempted for Human Rights Law violations in 
housing, employment, and disability accommodations NA 1,433 1,303 1,346 1,441 * * NA Up
Tests completed for Human Rights Law violations in 
housing, employment, and disability accommodations NA 1,242 943 1,182 1,278 * * NA Up
Testing completion rate for Human Rights Law violations 
in housing, employment, and disability accommodations NA 87% 72% 88% 89% * * NA Up
Entities tested for Human Rights Law violations in hous -
ing, employment, and disability accommodations 734 1,082 947 969 986 * * Up Up
Walk-ins assisted at CCHR offices NA NA 430 246 476 * * NA *
Phone calls received by InfoLine staff NA NA 21,301 20,349 21,629 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Educate the community on the NYC Human Rights Law.
Goal 2a Increase community awareness of the NYCHRL through workshops, campaigns, hearings, and outreach 
aimed at the general public, employers, small businesses, and housing providers.
In Fiscal 2026, CCHR reached 116,553 people in New York City by engaging them in 1,968 outreach events and training 
sessions on the New York City Human Rights Law. While these numbers are significant and above their respective targets, 
they constitute a decrease from Fiscal 2025, which saw 150,053 people reached in 2,845 outreach events. Outreach activity 
also shifted geographically: the share of outreach sessions held in Manhattan fell from 28 percent to 21 percent, while 
the share in Staten Island grew from 22 percent to 26 percent. Brooklyn, Queens and Bronx received relatively the same 
proportion of sessions as last fiscal year. Despite the decrease in in-person outreach, New Yorkers continued to engage 
with CCHR virtually, with online trainings viewed by the public rising 59 percent to 1,934,975 and website views rising 17 
percent to 4,904,785 in Fiscal 2026. CCHR also reached 22,071 youth in Fiscal 2026, 15 percent more despite hosting 25 
percent fewer youth outreach sessions, down to 279 from 371.
<<<PAGE 130>>>
Page 118  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
As part of the Agency-wide reorganization, CCHR is rethinking its approach to outreach. Rather than focusing on the 
number of people that CCHR reached, the Commission is focusing instead on targeted and strategic outreach by providing 
more legal trainings to community-based organizations and other groups that are likely to engage specifically with people 
likely to have experienced discrimination. Because of this, the Commission is focusing less on tabling, resource fairs, and 
leafleting and focusing instead more on media campaigns and strategic relationships. For example, in Fiscal 2026, the 
Commission worked closely with the Fortune Society (a nonprofit that provides reentry services like housing, employment, 
education, and other support to people who have been incarcerated) to educate the public on the Fair Chance Housing 
Act, which limits when landlords can rely on someone’s criminal history to make rental determinations. Because the Fortune 
Society has deep community ties and a long history of working with formerly incarcerated individuals and providing re-
entry services, they are better situated to engage in outreach work than CCHR could be on its own. One essential part of 
the Agency-wide reorganization is the focus on building and leveraging these partnerships of trust with the community 
organizations who have already been doing the work, rather than trying to use limited Agency resources to do everything 
alone. 
While the Commission’s reorganization was not officially completed until July 2026, the last five months of Fiscal 2026 
involved substantial planning and internal trainings for staff who were being reassigned to specialized units, contributing 
to a slow-down in general outreach events. While the Commission previously had roughly 30 staff members devoted to 
outreach and trainings of all types, it now has specialized units focused on creating and maintaining community partnerships, 
providing trainings for businesses and for impacted communities, and managing communications and media. The goal is to 
ensure that all Commission resources are deployed strategically and for maximum impact. To that end, the Commission is 
also reviewing how it communicates with the public, including through trainings and formal notices, to increase accessibility 
and reduce unnecessary complexity.  
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
People reached 107,136 132,507 142,398 150,053 116,553 95,000 95,000 Up Up
Training and outreach sessions 1,794 2,172 2,888 2,845 1,968 1,500 1,500 Up Up
Outreach sessions in Manhattan (% of total) NA NA 23% 28% 21% * * NA *
Outreach sessions in Staten Island (% of total) NA NA 20% 22% 26% * * NA *
Outreach sessions in Brooklyn (% of total) NA NA 14% 18% 19% * * NA *
Outreach sessions in Queens (% of total) NA NA 12% 17% 15% * * NA *
Outreach sessions in the Bronx (% of total) NA NA 12% 15% 18% * * NA *
Outreach sessions conducted virtually (%) NA NA 14% 18% 18% * * NA Up
Training and outreach sessions targeting youth 169 220 318 371 279 250 250 Up Up
 People reached (youth events) NA NA 19,412 19,177 22,071 ñ ñ NA Up
Online trainings viewed by members of the public NA NA 544,060 1,216,744 1,934,975 * * NA Up
Website views NA 2,330,417 4,481,280 4,197,569 4,904,785 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 131>>>
CITY COMMISSION ON HUMAN RIGHTS  |  Page 119
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 99% 100% 99% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
Completed requests for interpretation 1,373 1,414 2,129 2,095 1,661 * * Up *
Average wait time to speak with a customer service agent (minutes) 0 5 10 14 13 * * Up Down
CORE facility rating 98 96 100 98 98 * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $11.2 $11.1 $11.5 $12.3 $13.3 $15.4 $15.0 Neutral
Personnel 101 101 105 104 109 145 137 Down
Overtime paid ($000) $1 $0 $0 $0 $4 $4 $4 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $10.3 $10.3 
        001 - Personal Services $5.8 $5.8 All
        003 - Community Development $4.4 $4.5 All
Other Than Personal Services - Total $2.0 $3.0 
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $0.5 $1.2 All
        004 - Community Development $1.5 $1.8 All
Agency Total $12.3 $13.3 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.  
<<<PAGE 132>>>
Page 120  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Christine Clarke was appointed Commissioner of the Commission on Human Rights in January 2026.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• The New York City Human Rights Law: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/cchr/law/text-of-the-law.page
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/cchr.
<<<PAGE 133>>>
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE  
TRIALS AND HEARINGS  
Vilda Vera Mayuga, Commissioner and Chief Administrative Law Judge
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE TRIALS AND HEARINGS  |  Page 121
WHAT WE DO
The Office of Administrative Trials and 
Hearings (OATH) is New York City’s 
central, independent administrative 
law court. OATH consists of three 
divisions responsible for adjudicating 
City matters: Trials Division, Hearings 
Division, and Special Education 
Hearings Division. The Trials Division 
adjudicates a wide range of issues 
that are referred to by any City 
agency, board, or commission. Trials 
are conducted by Administrative 
Law Judges appointed to five-year 
terms by OATH’s Commissioner and 
Chief Administrative Law Judge. The 
Hearings Division adjudicates matters 
related to summonses issued by more 
than 25 different City enforcement 
agencies for alleged violations of City 
laws or rules. Hearings are conducted 
by Judicial Hearing Officers. 
The Special Education Hearings 
Division adjudicates disputes about 
special education services provided 
to New York City children. These due 
process hearings are conducted by 
Impartial Hearing Officers certified 
by the State and appointed to four-
year terms by OATH’s Commissioner 
and Chief Administrative Law Judge. 
OATH also houses the Center for 
Creative Conflict Resolution, which 
provides mediation and restorative 
justice support to City government 
agencies. The Center also has public-
facing programs, including MEND 
NYC (Mediating Establishment and 
Neighborhood Disputes) and a Green 
Thumbs program, both of which 
mediate disputes between the public 
and businesses or community spaces. 
Additionally, OATH provides training 
and other support services for the 
City’s Administrative Law Judges 
and Hearing Officers through its 
Administrative Judicial Institute.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
OATH’s focus on equity involves ensuring that all individuals and businesses with 
matters before OATH have equitable access to services and are treated fairly. For 
instance, respondents appearing before the Hearings Division have the convenient 
option of challenging summonses they receive from City enforcement agencies 
by phone. To further equitable access to justice, OATH offers parties a call-back 
option to minimize the wait time for hearings to start. Respondents can also sign 
up for reminders via text messaging of upcoming hearings and related instructions. 
OATH’s Help Center is another tool to further access to justice. Through one-on-
one sessions, the Help Center supports self-represented respondents in navigating 
the OATH process. Support is provided in-person, over the phone, via email, or by 
text message. The Help Center also connects respondents with services offered by 
the Department of Small Business Services and other City agencies. 
Key to OATH’s focus on equity is also ensuring that all informational materials, forms 
and applications are available to every New Yorker, regardless of the language they 
speak. OATH provides free interpretation services at all hearings and Help Center 
interactions, and free document translation for evidence, applications and forms. 
Additionally, OATH provides hearing decisions in any language requested free of 
charge at both of its high-volume adjudicatory divisions, namely the Hearings 
Division and the Special Education Hearings Division.  
<<<PAGE 134>>>
Page 122  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Adjudicate alleged violations of State and City administrative laws.
Goal 1a Hear cases promptly and issue timely and fair decisions at the OATH Trials Division.
SERVICE 2 Adjudicate alleged violations of City administrative laws.
Goal 2a Hear cases promptly and issue timely and fair decisions at the OATH Hearings Division.
SERVICE 3 Adjudicate due process complaints related to special education services.
Goal 3a Hear cases promptly and issue timely and fair decisions at the OATH Special Education Hearings Division.
SERVICE 4 Provide conflict resolution services and restorative practices to City agencies and the public 
through OATH’s Center for Creative Conflict Resolution.
Goal 4a Administer mediations, trainings, and restorative group sessions to restore interpersonal relationships between 
City employees who experience conflict at work and to support City residents and businesses who experience 
conflict with their neighbors or landlords.
SERVICE 5 Provide assistance to self-represented respondents who have cases at OATH.
Goal 5a Provide timely assistance and case-specific information to self-represented respondents who have cases at 
the Hearings Division through OATH’s Help Center.
<<<PAGE 135>>>
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE TRIALS AND HEARINGS  |  Page 123
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Adjudicate alleged violations of State and City administrative laws.
Goal 1a Hear cases promptly and issue timely and fair decisions at the OATH Trials Division.
In Fiscal 2026, 2,439 cases were filed at the Trials Division, a decrease of five percent in case filings from Fiscal 2025. On 
average, the rate of cases settling at the Trials Division decreased slightly from 61 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 57 percent in 
Fiscal 2026. 
Due to fewer Administrative Law Judges (ALJs) in Fiscal 2026 compared to the prior year, the average number of cases 
processed per ALJ increased by 42 percent from an average of 210.4 cases per ALJ in Fiscal 2025 to an average of 298.9 
cases per ALJ in Fiscal 2026. Decision times increased 11 percent, from 40.7 days to 45.2 days. Similarly, the rate of decisions 
issued within 45 business days fell eight percentage points to 71 percent in Fiscal 2026. Towards the end of Fiscal 2026, 
two new ALJs were appointed and accordingly case-processing times are expected to improve in Fiscal 2027. However, it is 
important to keep in mind that fluctuations in decision time will vary depending on factors such as the number of charges, 
complaints, or causes of action, as well as the number of parties, the legal and factual issues involved, and whether a case 
is subject to statutory or other legal resolution deadlines. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cases filed at OATH Trials Division 2,975 3,759 3,653 2,556 2,439 * * Down *
Cases closed at OATH Trials Division 2,748 3,874 3,538 2,606 2,471 * * Down *
Cases processed per Administrative Law Judge 178.7 324.2 313.6 210.4 298.9 * * Up *
OATH Trials Division settlement rate (%) 57% 57% 60% 61% 57% 55% 55% Neutral *
Average time for OATH Trials Division to issue decisions after records 
closed (business days) 33.5 31.4 36.0 40.7 45.2 * * Up *
 OATH Trials Division cases with decisions issued within 45 busi -
ness days (%) 78% 89% 83% 79% 71% ñ ñ Down Up
 OATH Trials Division facts and conclusions adopted by agencies 
(%) 96% 99% 99% 97% 96% 96% 96% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Adjudicate alleged violations of City administrative laws.
Goal 2a Hear cases promptly and issue timely and fair decisions at the OATH Hearings Division.
In Fiscal 2026, the Hearings Division received nearly one million summonses 
(997,766) from City enforcement agencies. This represents a 10 percent 
decrease in summonses filed when compared to the 1,105,448 summonses 
filed in Fiscal 2025, which is an all-time high. 
Although fewer summonses were filed, OATH held 13 percent more 
hearings in Fiscal 2026 (up from 240,902 to 272,052). Hearings conducted 
across all methods rose in Fiscal 2026. OATH conducted 11 percent more 
hearings by phone (from 197,077 to 218,443), 20 percent more hearings 
with defenses submitted online (from 38,904 to 46,684), 32 percent more 
hearings with defenses submitted by mail (from 2,071 to 2,744), and 47 
percent more in-person hearings (from 2,850 to 4,181). The average time 
to render a decision rose by five days in Fiscal 2026 (from 11 days to 16 
days) due to staffing shortages and conducting 31,150 more total hearings. 
Despite issuing more hearing decisions in Fiscal 2026, 15 percent fewer 
appeals decisions were issued (down from 2,074 to 1,754). 
Summonses Received at OATH from Issuing Agencies
Summonses Received at OATH from Issuing Agencies
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26
764,871
571,354
850,256
1,105,448
997,766
<<<PAGE 136>>>
Page 124  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Summonses received from enforcement agencies 571,354 764,871 850,256 1,105,448 997,766 * * Up *
 Summonses resolved through pre-hearing activities 193,455 263,343 285,592 377,222 342,062 * * Up *
 Decisions issued 415,130 492,246 592,716 678,578 686,960 * * Up *
— Hearing and administrative decisions issued 159,666 175,941 193,249 217,049 233,149 * * Up *
— Default decisions issued 255,464 316,305 399,467 461,529 453,811 * * Up *
Hearings held 204,952 221,726 231,851 240,902 272,052 * * Up *
— Hearings conducted by phone 196,407 189,541 192,166 197,077 218,443 * * Up *
— Hearings conducted in-person 495 1,969 2,775 2,850 4,181 * * Up *
— Hearings conducted with written defenses submitted online 24,173 26,942 33,832 38,904 46,684 * * Up *
— Hearings conducted with written defenses submitted by mail 3,877 3,274 3,078 2,071 2,744 * * Down *
 Average days for Judicial Hearings Officers to render decisions 10 9 12 11 16 * * Up *
 Appeals decisions rendered 2,088 2,042 2,711 2,074 1,754 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Adjudicate due process complaints related to special education services.
Goal 3a Hear cases promptly and issue timely and fair decisions at the OATH Special Education Hearings Division.
In Fiscal 2026, 19 percent fewer cases were filed with the Special Education Hearings Division compared to Fiscal 2025 (down 
from 19,499 to 15,712). Accordingly, OATH conducted 29 percent fewer special education hearings (down from 19,617 
to 13,866). OATH received all new special education cases filed for New York City in Fiscal 2025, whereas adjudication 
of these cases was previously handled in part by contracted Impartial Hearing Officers unaffiliated with OATH. With the 
decrease in caseload in Fiscal 2026, the average number of cases closed by Special Education Hearing Officer decreased 
(from 18 to 15) and the rate of special education cases closed within the regulatory timeframe increased three percentage 
points (from 70 percent to 73 percent). In Fiscal 2026, the average time to close special education cases increased from 
101.9 days to 124.7 days. This reflects a shift in composition of cases filed with the Special Education Hearings Division 
in Fiscal 2026. Specifically, Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) filings take longer to resolve due to increased 
complexity and rose 14 percent, whereas non-IDEA filings close faster and fell 45 percent. As such, the overall increase in 
time to close these cases is attributed to the higher proportion of more complex IDEA filings.    
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cases filed and appointed to OATH Special Education Hearings 
Division NA NA 19,117 19,499 15,712 * * NA *
Cases closed at OATH Special Education Hearings Division NA NA 15,583 18,376 17,550 * * NA *
Average number of cases closed per Special Education Hearing 
Officer per month NA NA 16.9 17.9 15.2 * * NA *
 Special education cases closed within regulatory timeframe (%) NA NA 95% 70% 73% 90% 90% NA *
 Average time from appointment to OATH Special Education 
Hearing Officer to case closure NA NA 84.5 101.9 124.7 105.0 105.0 NA *
Settlement and other pre-trial conferences conducted for special 
education cases NA NA 14,489 21,174 19,121 * * NA *
Special education hearings conducted NA NA 19,764 19,617 13,866 * * NA *
Final decisions issued on the merits NA NA 6,651 11,448 11,980 * * NA *
Special education cases where parents are represented by counsel 
or other representative (% of total) NA NA 93% 85% 94% * * NA *
Language services provided to parent NA NA 630 748 876 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 137>>>
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE TRIALS AND HEARINGS  |  Page 125
SERVICE 4 Provide conflict resolution services and restorative practices to City agencies and the public 
through the Center for Creative Conflict Resolution.
Goal 4a Administer mediations, trainings, and restorative group sessions to restore interpersonal relationships 
between City employees who experience conflict at work and to support City residents and businesses 
who experience conflict with their neighbors or landlords.
The Center for Creative Conflict Resolution (the Center) continues to provide its wide range of personally tailored services to 
City employees, agencies, and members of the public. These services include group and individual consultations, coaching 
sessions, trainings, and mediations. With lower levels of demand in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025, the Center 
conducted seven percent fewer mediations for City employees (67 to 62), 12 percent fewer conflict resolution trainings (78 
to 69), six percent fewer coaching sessions (100 to 94), and 15 percent fewer consultations for City personnel (241 to 204). 
However, there was a 28 percent increase in the number of restorative circles and group facilitation sessions administered 
(18 to 23). The satisfaction rate for Center services increased to 98 percent in Fiscal 2026, the highest satisfaction rate 
ever reported. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Mediations administered for City employees 45 50 81 67 62 * * Up *
Conflict resolution trainings administered for City employees 51 55 85 78 69 * * Up *
Coaching sessions for City personnel 69 79 71 100 94 * * Up *
Consultations for City personnel 148 338 316 241 204 * * Neutral *
Restorative group sessions 25 22 23 18 23 * * Down *
Mediations administered for members of the public 12 7 10 11 9 * * Neutral *
 Participants who reported satisfaction with conflict resolution 
services NA 97% 95% 96% 98% * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 5 Provide assistance to self-represented respondents who have cases at OATH.
Goal 5a Provide timely assistance and case-specific information to self-represented respondents who have cases 
at OATH’s Hearings Division through OATH’s Help Center.
The Help Center aids unrepresented respondents through education and information sharing, explaining the hearing 
process, giving case-specific options on how to proceed, and assisting respondents with procedural requirements such as 
filling out request forms and applications. With 10 percent fewer summonses filed at OATH in Fiscal 2026, the Help Center 
concurrently conducted four percent fewer help sessions in Fiscal 2026 (down from 44,308 to 42,687). 
The Help Center strives to provide unrepresented case respondents with multiple ways to connect for assistance, including 
by leaving a voicemail, sending an email, submitting an online contact form, or sending a text message. The average time 
to receive assistance increased from less than one day in Fiscal 2025 to 1.41 days in Fiscal 2026 when someone contacted 
the Help Center using its online contact form, primarily because the Help Center lost five staff members during Fiscal 2026 
which have not been replaced. Despite operating with fewer staff in Fiscal 2026, the Help Center was able to decrease its 
response time when responding to inquiries made via email or by voicemail from 1.82 days to 1.23 days. In Fiscal 2026, 
11,761 respondents were assisted by the Help Center using its text messaging service, down seven percent from the 12,691 
people who were assisted via text in Fiscal 2025. Further, the Help Center’s response time to text messages remained well 
under half a day in Fiscal 2026. In addition to help sessions and responses to inquiries, the Help Center staff also work at 
customer service windows to assist people who walk into each of OATH’s borough Hearing Centers. In Fiscal 2026, there 
were 56,085 case respondents who visited OATH offices in person and were assisted at customer service windows by Help 
Center staff, a nearly five percent decrease from Fiscal 2025 when 58,839 people were assisted at walk-in locations. 
<<<PAGE 138>>>
Page 126  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Help Sessions conducted by OATH Help Center 40,637 38,435 33,595 44,308 42,687 * * Up *
 Average days after online request is made to initiate Help Center 
assistance NA 0.37 0.40 0.77 1.41 * * NA *
Respondents assisted by Help Center via text messaging exchange NA NA NA 12,691 11,761 * * NA *
 Average days after text message request is made to initiate Help 
Center assistance NA NA NA 0.29 0.36 ò ò NA Down
Respondents assisted by Help Center via email/voicemail exchange NA NA NA 25,001 24,967 * * NA *
 Average days after email/voicemail request is made to initiate 
Help Center assistance NA NA NA 1.82 1.23 ò ò NA Down
Respondents who were assisted by the Help Center at customer 
service windows NA NA NA 58,839 56,085 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 8,541 8,778 11,466 11,795 10,577 * * Up *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 91.67% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 99% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
CORE facility rating 100 100 100 100 100 * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $44.7 $55.8 $67.3 $71.6 $75.3 $81.8 $82.5 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $136.3 $137.1 $146.6 $173.3 $189.8 $158.0 $148.9 Up
Personnel 379 429 458 499 490 595 586 Up
Overtime paid ($000) $68 $39 $128 $78 $10 $10 $10 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 139>>>
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE TRIALS AND HEARINGS  |  Page 127
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        001 - Personal Services $56.2 $58.8 All
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $15.5 $16.5 All
Agency Total $71.6 $75.3
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.  
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Vilda Vera Mayuga was appointed as Commissioner of the Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings in January 2026.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/oath.
<<<PAGE 140>>>
Page 128  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 141>>>
BUSINESS INTEGRITY  
COMMISSION Asim Rehman, Commissioner and Chair
BUSINESS INTEGRITY COMMISSION  |  Page 129
WHAT WE DO
The Business Integrity Commission 
(BIC) regulates the trade waste 
industry and businesses operating 
in New York City’s public wholesale 
markets. Additionally, BIC has the 
authority to regulate the shipboard 
gambling industry, although 
this industry currently does not 
operate in New York City. The 
BIC Commissioner is Chair of the 
Commission with members consisting 
of the Commissioners of five New 
York City agencies (or their designee) 
including the Police Department 
(NYPD), Department of Investigation 
(DOI), Department of Sanitation 
(DSNY), Department of Consumer 
and Worker Protection (DCWP), and 
the Department of Small Business 
Services (SBS). The Commission 
holds public meetings to vote on 
final determinations regarding such 
matters as the denial of applications 
for a license or registration, new rules 
and amendments to existing BIC rules, 
and resolutions.
Through regulation, BIC ensures the 
companies in these industries have the 
requisite business integrity to operate 
and are in compliance with the City’s 
laws and rules, such as those related to 
trade waste safety, particularly traffic 
safety. BIC carries out its mandate to 
eliminate corruption and criminality, 
including organized crime, in these 
regulated industries by conducting 
vigorous background investigations 
of license and registration applicants, 
conducting criminal and regulatory 
audits and investigations, establishing 
standards for services and conduct 
of licensed and registered business, 
and enforcing the City’s rules and 
laws by issuing violations and 
denying applications for a license or 
registration. BIC protects New York 
City consumers by seeking to ensure 
that the businesses in these industries 
and markets act in an honest manner.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
At the core of BIC’s mission is to protect New York City customers of the trade 
waste industry and the City’s public wholesale markets through regulation. By 
keeping corruption and criminality out of these industries and enforcing compliance 
with BIC rules, BIC fosters an open marketplace for these industry businesses to 
compete fairly, thereby providing an environment where customers receive equal 
treatment.
BIC regulation supports a range of City initiatives, from improving quality of life and 
the environment to promoting public safety. Previously, BIC collaborated with DSNY 
on waste equity policies to reduce the impacts of commercial waste on historically 
overburdened neighborhoods, mainly with the passing of Local Law 199 of 2019, 
which established the DSNY Commercial Waste Zones (CWZ) program. Once fully 
implemented by DSNY, CWZ aims to reduce trade waste truck traffic, thus lowering 
the negative environmental impacts such traffic generates, improving safety on 
New York City streets, and enhancing the quality of life in every neighborhood, 
particularly those exposed to more truck traffic. 
As a member agency of Vision Zero, the City’s initiative working towards the goal 
of zero traffic-related fatalities and serious injuries, BIC participates in various 
interagency programs to improve street safety. Since October 2024, BIC has 
joined the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) Bridges and Tunnels, 
NYPD, and other enforcement agencies on the Ghost Plate Task Force, through 
which thousands of vehicles attempting to evade traffic laws and rules have been 
removed from City streets. In Fiscal 2026, BIC piloted several joint operations with 
NYPD and MTA Bridges and Tunnels in high-collision trucking corridors. These 
operations enhance public and roadway safety by promoting compliance with 
traffic regulations and identifying unsafe vehicles and drivers. BIC also participates 
in the preparation of citywide events that support safe, equitable, and sustainable 
communities across the five boroughs, like the New York City Department of 
Transportation’s Summer Streets program. 
BIC commits to promoting a diverse and inclusive workplace culture for its 
employees as supported by policies such as BIC’s Equal Employment Opportunity 
Commitment Statement. In addition to ensuring that all BIC staff complete 
citywide equity and inclusion training, BIC’s Chief Diversity Officer encourages 
staff to participate in various cultural events throughout the year. BIC’s public 
facing staff receive customer service training and have been recognized for their 
professionalism by the Mayor’s Office of Operations. BIC’s multilingual employees 
volunteer to translate for applicants who are not fluent or proficient in the English 
language. In addition, BIC’s recruitment efforts utilize best practices to ensure 
diversity and fairness around hiring and internal promotions. A tolerant and 
equitable workplace empowers employees to perform to their full potential, and 
BIC can better communicate with its applicants and the public with a workforce 
reflective of the City’s population.
<<<PAGE 142>>>
Page 130  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Regulate the trade waste industry in the City.
Goal 1a Ensure that all businesses in the trade waste industry in the City abide by the law.
Goal 1b Process license and registration applications for the waste hauling industry in a timely manner.
SERVICE 2 Regulate businesses in and around the City’s public wholesale markets.
Goal 2a Ensure that businesses in and around the City’s public wholesale markets abide by the law.
Goal 2b Process registration applications for businesses in and around the City’s public wholesale markets in a timely 
manner.
<<<PAGE 143>>>
BUSINESS INTEGRITY COMMISSION  |  Page 131
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Regulate the trade waste industry in the City.
Goal 1a Ensure that all businesses in the trade waste industry in the City abide by the law.
In Fiscal 2026, the number of violations BIC issued to legally operating private trade waste haulers decreased 19 percent 
from 1,246 in Fiscal 2025 to 1,016. The number of violations BIC issued to illegally operating private trade waste haulers 
decreased 18 percent from 576 in Fiscal 2025 to 470 in Fiscal 2026. These violations vary year-over-year based on discovered 
illegal activity. BIC continues its on-street enforcement with the objective of discovering those trade waste hauling companies 
that operate in the City without a BIC license or registration. These unlicensed or unregistered waste haulers pose both a 
corruption and safety risk to workers, customers and the public, as BIC has not vetted these entities. 
BIC waste hauling applications denied or revoked increased from two in Fiscal 2025 to eight in Fiscal 2026. The percentage 
of private waste hauler violations admitted to or upheld at OATH remained unchanged from Fiscal 2025 at 96 percent, 
continuing an upward five-year trend.
In Fiscal 2026, there was a nine percent increase in waste hauling complaints received compared to Fiscal 2025. BIC 
encourages trade waste companies, employees of the trade waste industry, customers and the public to submit complaints 
to BIC for a wide array of issues. BIC continues to partner with the Department of Small Business Services and conducts town 
halls to inform businesses and members of the public about their rights, particularly as pertaining to carting companies.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Violations issued to private waste haulers — Total 1,088 2,876 1,573 1,822 1,486 * * Neutral *
 – Legally operating private waste haulers 526 2,008 1,163 1,246 1,016 * * Neutral *
 – Illegally operating private waste haulers 562 868 410 576 470 * * Down *
Private Waste Hauler Violations admitted to or upheld at OATH (%) 83.0% 86.0% 90.0% 96.0% 96.0% * * Up Up
 Waste hauling license and registration applications denied or 
revoked 1 1 1 2 8 * * Up *
Waste hauling complaints received 292 260 203 295 321 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Process license and registration applications for the waste hauling industry in a timely manner.
The number of pending new waste hauling applications decreased from 75 in Fiscal 2025 to 71 in Fiscal 2026, and the 
average age of pending new waste hauling applications decreased by 24 percent to 247 days. BIC approved 113 new waste 
hauling applications compared to 134 in Fiscal 2025, and the average time to approve new waste hauling applications 
increased 22 percent, from 192 to 234 days. The increase can be attributed to a few outliers with prolonged review time 
that greatly impacted the average days to approve.
The number of pending renewal waste hauling applications rose 14 percent, from 680 in Fiscal 2025 to 777 in Fiscal 2026 
due to a high renewal submission cycle in the last half of Fiscal 2026. The average age of pending renewal waste hauler 
applications increased by 12 percent to 220 days. BIC approved 682 renewal waste hauling applications in Fiscal 2026, a 
45 percent increase from 470 renewal waste hauling applications in Fiscal 2025, while the average time to approve renewal 
waste hauling applications increased by nearly 21 percent to 298 days compared to 247 days in Fiscal 2025. These shifts in 
pending applications and processing times are primarily due to budgetary constraints and a significant loss of staff involved 
in the application review and approval process, thus impacting the remaining staff’s workload. BIC will continue to prioritize 
new applicants as they cannot operate legally before application approval, whereas renewal applicants may continue to 
operate while their applications are under review.
<<<PAGE 144>>>
Page 132  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Waste hauling applications pending — New 105 74 72 75 71 * * Down *
Average age of pending waste hauling applications (days) — New 165 186 247 324 247 * * Up Down
Waste hauling applications approved — New 134 203 153 134 113 * * Down Up
 Average time to approve waste hauling applications (days) — 
New 209 168 120 192 234 150 150 Up Down
Waste hauling applications pending — Renewal 1,071 648 531 680 777 * * Down *
Average age of pending waste hauling applications (days) — Re -
newal 281 316 220 196 220 * * Down Down
Waste hauling applications approved — Renewal 645 775 872 470 682 * * Down Up
 Average time to approve waste hauling applications (days) — 
Renewal 369 316 230 247 298 210 210 Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Regulate businesses in and around the City’s public wholesale markets.
Goal 2a Ensure that businesses in and around the City’s public wholesale markets abide by the law.
BIC denied one public wholesale market application in Fiscal 2026. BIC also issued 36 violations at public wholesale 
markets, an increase of six violations from Fiscal 2025. While there was a rise in violations, the percentage of public 
wholesale market violations admitted to or upheld at OATH decreased by 15 percentage points from 90 percent in Fiscal 
2025 to 75 percent in Fiscal 2026. BIC currently holds a five-year average of violations admitted to or upheld at OATH 
of 90 percent.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Violations issued at public wholesale markets 35 25 8 30 36 * * Up *
Public Wholesale Markets Violations admitted to or upheld at OATH 
(%) 94.0% 95.0% 100.0% 90.0% 75.0% * * Down Up
 Public wholesale market license and registration applications 
denied or revoked 0 0 0 0 1 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 145>>>
BUSINESS INTEGRITY COMMISSION  |  Page 133
Goal 2b Process registration applications for businesses in and around the City’s public wholesale markets in a 
timely manner.
BIC approved eight new public wholesale market applications, with an average approval time of 268 days in Fiscal 2026, 
up from 155 days in Fiscal 2025. Due to the low volume of new public wholesale market applications approved, one outlier 
caused this average to significantly increase. 
Pending renewal public wholesale market applications remain steady with 48 applications pending in Fiscal 2025 compared 
to 50 in Fiscal 2026. At the end of Fiscal 2026 there were no pending new public whole market applications. In Fiscal 2026, 
BIC approved 65 renewal public wholesale market applications, a 59 percent increase compared to the 41 applications 
approved in Fiscal 2025. The average time to approve these applications increased to 233 days from 103 days in Fiscal 2025, 
23 days above the 210-day target. These shifts in processing time are primarily due to budgetary constraints and a significant 
loss of staff involved in the application review and approval process, thus impacting the remaining staff’s workload.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Public wholesale market applications pending — New 3 5 3 5 0 * * Down *
Average age of pending public wholesale market applications (days) 
— New 170 132 348 342 0 * * Down Down
Public wholesale market applications approved — New 9 9 5 9 8 * * Neutral Up
 Average time to approve public wholesale market applications 
(days) — New 193 95 204 155 268 150 150 Up Down
Public wholesale market applications pending — Renewal 43 23 10 48 50 * * Up *
Average age of pending public wholesale market applications (days) 
— Renewal 110 142 217 94 181 * * Up Down
Public wholesale market applications approved — Renewal 78 92 49 41 65 * * Down Up
 Average time to approve public wholesale market applications 
(days) — Renewal 170 123 185 103 233 210 210 Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 75% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Up Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
Completed requests for interpretation 36 24 115 134 118 * * Up *
CORE facility rating NA NA NA NA 100 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $8.7 $9.0 $8.8 $8.5 $9.2 $9.2 $8.8 Neutral
Revenues ($000,000) $6.8 $6.5 $7.6 $8.8 $13.0 $11.6 $4.9 Up
Personnel 71 70 66 63 67 73 73 Down
Overtime paid ($000) $120 $84 $24 $48 $96 $57 $10 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 146>>>
Page 134  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        001 - Personal Services $6.2 $6.8 All
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $2.3 $2.4 All
Agency Total $8.5 $9.2 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.  
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Asim Rehman was appointed as Commissioner and Chair of the Business Integrity Commission in April 2026.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/bic.
<<<PAGE 147>>>
Basic Services for 
All New Yorkers
<<<PAGE 148>>>
Basic Services for  
All New Yorkers
Department of 
Sanitation p 137
Department of  
Parks & Recreation p 147
Department of  
Cultural Affairs p 159
Department of Consumer 
and Worker Protection p 167
311 Customer  
Service Center
NYC
p 177
Taxi and Limousine 
Commission p 181
<<<PAGE 149>>>
DEPARTMENT OF  
SANITATION Gregory Anderson, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION  |  Page 137
WHAT WE DO
The New York City Department 
of Sanitation (DSNY) keeps New 
York City clean, safe, and healthy 
by collecting trash and recycling, 
composting food scraps and yard 
waste, cleaning streets and public 
spaces, and clearing snow and ice 
from its roadways. DSNY is staffed 
by over 10,000 people and maintains 
over 5,000 pieces of equipment 
across all 59 Sanitation Districts. 
DSNY collects approximately 24 
million pounds of waste produced 
by New York City residents every 
day and regulates the collection 
of an additional 20 million pounds 
per day produced by New York City 
businesses.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
DSNY provides high-quality proactive and responsive cleaning, collection, and 
snow removal services to all New Yorkers citywide. During Fiscal 2026, the City 
experienced its snowiest winter in 11 years with over 45 inches of snow. To keep 
ahead of snow removal in all areas of the City, DSNY mobilized 12-hour round-
the-clock shifts, deploying over 2,300 plows and 700 salt spreaders.
Over Fiscal 2026, DSNY advanced trash containerization by mandating official 
lidded bins for one to nine unit homes, expanding automated on-street “Empire 
Bin” pilots in Manhattan and Brooklyn, issuing tens of thousands of enforcement 
warnings, and setting a legislative framework for full citywide containerization by 
the end of Calendar 2031.
New York City’s mandatory curbside composting program—now the nation’s 
largest—saw residential organics diversion increase by 25 percent compared 
to the previous fiscal year. This program was designed with equity in mind to 
ensure that all New Yorkers receive the same, easy-to-use curbside service. 
Trash containerization and composting are key equity solutions that reduce the 
food supply that has fueled the City’s rodent problem and keep New York City 
neighborhoods cleaner and healthier. 
<<<PAGE 150>>>
Page 138  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Clean streets, sidewalks and vacant lots.
Goal 1a Increase street and sidewalk cleanliness.
Goal 1b Enforce Sanitation regulations.
SERVICE 2 Collect and dispose of waste.
Goal 2a Improve efficiency of waste handling.
SERVICE 3 Reduce, reuse, and recycle waste.
Goal 3a Increase the amount of waste diverted from disposal.
Goal 3b Increase composting.
Goal 3c Increase the reuse and recycling of textiles, electronics, and harmful household products.
SERVICE 4 Prepare and clear snow and ice from City streets and roadways
Goal 4a Stay ahead of and be prepared for winter storms and impacts.
<<<PAGE 151>>>
DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION  |  Page 139
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Clean streets, sidewalks and vacant lots.
Goal 1a Increase street and sidewalk cleanliness.
The number of vacant lot cleaning requests declined by 11 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025, continuing a 
downward trend over the last two fiscal years. However, the number of lots cleaned citywide more than doubled, increasing 
from 101 in Fiscal 2025 to 257 in Fiscal 2026, though remaining well below past fiscal years. This increase reflects the 
partial restoration of lot cleaning funding after Fiscal 2025 funding cuts had driven the program to its lowest cleaning total 
in years. The number of needles removed fell 49 percent, following three consecutive years of increases, likely because of 
fewer interagency clean-up operations and staff diversions during snow operations. Growing emphasis on harm reduction 
strategies, including syringe buy-back programs, may also have contributed to this decline. The number of litter baskets 
serviced declined seven percent in Fiscal 2026 relative to Fiscal 2025 due to snow operations. 
Both the number of Targeted Neighborhood Taskforce (TNT) locations cleaned and the associated distance cleaned decreased 
in Fiscal 2026, down 19 percent and 18 percent, respectively, compared to Fiscal 2025. The primary cause for these decreases 
was staff diversions during extensive snow operations in Fiscal 2026. 
Progress continued in other cleanliness efforts, however, as miles of highway cleaned rose 23 percent, to over 4,500 miles, 
continuing the Highway Unit’s multi-year expansion. The number of graffiti service requests received declined 20 percent 
in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025. While DSNY had closed graffiti requests at or above intake for the past two fiscal 
years, the closure rate dipped to a still historically high 94 percent of incoming requests in Fiscal 2026, a decline directly 
attributed to a nearly two-month suspension of graffiti cleaning during unprecedented snow and prolonged cold weather, 
which prevents effective cleaning.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Vacant lot cleaning requests 2,941 2,831 2,967 2,711 2,410 2,500 * Down *
 Lots cleaned citywide 1,652 1,440 534 101 257 3,200 * Down *
 Needles removed 69,692 90,861 83,807 126,247 64,136 * * Up *
Litter baskets serviced (000) NA 10,744.1 9,523.4 9,798.0 9,128.7 * * NA *
Targeted Neighborhood Taskforce locations cleaned NA 14,326 19,011 13,188 10,665 * * NA *
Distance of Targeted Neighborhood Taskforce locations cleaned 
(miles) NA 7,760 16,504 12,042 9,882 * * NA *
Miles of highway cleaned NA 1,224 2,905 3,708 4,576 * * NA *
Graffiti service requests received 12,336 8,831 19,674 20,550 16,345 * * Up *
Graffiti service requests closed 4,444 7,552 19,681 20,734 15,428 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Enforce Sanitation regulations.
Containerization enforcement activity fell 44 percent, from over 200,000 summonses issued in Fiscal 2025, the first full 
year of enforcement following the November 2024 effective date of expanded containerization rules, to approximately 
113,600 in Fiscal 2026, as compliance with these rules increased. 
Confronting illegal dumping continues to be a priority for DSNY. Illegal dumping summonses increased seven percent, from 
872 in Fiscal 2025 to 930 in Fiscal 2026. Illegal dumping vehicles impounded increased 57 percent over this same period, 
from 417 to 653. The large increase in vehicles impounded is connected to more personnel allocated to investigations and 
the Fiscal 2026 expansion of the DSNY Illegal Dumping Award Program, which increased monetary rewards for reporting 
illegal dumping that results in paid fines.
DSNY is responsible for sweeping City streets, which requires the public to move their vehicles for curb accessibility. An 
indicator tracking the number of alternate side parking (ASP) and other parking violations issued has been added as a proxy 
measure of public compliance. Previously, this figure was included together with the Cleanliness violations issued. This will 
allow for better assessment of the impact of ASP enforcement on general street cleanliness. 
<<<PAGE 152>>>
Page 140  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
The number of abandoned vehicles removed from City streets declined only four percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 
2025, despite disruptions during snow operations. A new indicator in this report shows that illegal vending enforcement 
activity increased 17 percent, driven by a rise in 311 service requests for vendor enforcement. Another new indicator, 
illegal mobile car wash summonses issued, declined 37 percent compared to Fiscal 2025, demonstrating better compliance 
following an initial enforcement push when Local Law 32 of 2024 first took effect. This law authorizes DSNY to conduct 
outreach to unlicensed mobile car wash operators and to seize the vehicles and equipment of those operating without a 
license.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Cleanliness violations issued 210,632 299,579 352,894 315,884 303,778 * * Up *
Alternate side parking and other parking violations issued 387,618 618,449 639,913 635,045 603,047 * * Up *
 Recycling summonses and warnings issued 32,015 47,267 51,848 95,947 94,818 * * Up *
Containerization summonses and warnings issued 6,569 8,342 52,994 201,513 113,626 * * Up *
Illegal dumping cameras deployed NA 170 287 337 339 * * NA *
Illegal dumping summonses issued 358 763 721 872 930 * * Up *
Illegal dumping vehicles impounded 108 241 286 417 653 * * Up *
Abandoned vehicles removed from City streets NA 6,220 11,408 22,747 21,784 * * NA *
Illegal vending summonses and warnings issued NA 243 2,389 5,029 5,870 * * NA *
Illegal mobile car wash summonses issued NA NA NA 709 450 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Collect and dispose of waste.
Goal 2a Improve efficiency of waste handling.
In Fiscal 2024, DSNY implemented new citywide waste handling productivity targets across all residential material types, 
as negotiated in a 2023 labor agreement. Previously, only refuse, paper, and metal/glass/plastic collection were included 
in the assessment of collection productivity, using separate targets for refuse and recycling. With the citywide expansion 
of the universal curbside composting program, the tons per truck-shift and dumped on shift indicators were combined 
to report one figure across refuse, recycling, and organics collection. Residential curbside tons per truck shift reached the 
newly established target for the combined metric of 8.2 tons in Fiscal 2026, and although the target has changed with 
successive contracts, this is the first time DSNY has met its annual target since Fiscal 2005. The revised dumped-on-shift 
metric was 40.5 percent in Fiscal 2026, five percentage points below target. 
The average outage rate for all collection trucks improved two percentage points, decreasing from 28 percent in Fiscal 
2025 to 26 percent in Fiscal 2026, the first fiscal year improvement since Fiscal 2021. 
In Fiscal 2026, the City announced the expansion of multi-unit building containerization to six additional community 
districts by the end of 2027 and committed to full citywide trash containerization by the end of 2031. A new indicator, 
Empire Bins installed, has been added to track this expansion. Empire Bins are on-street, sealed trash containers for larger 
apartment buildings and schools.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Residential curbside tons per truck-shift NA NA NA 7.8 8.2 8.2 8.2 NA *
 Residential curbside trucks dumped on shift (%) NA NA NA 41.8% 40.5% 45.6% 45.6% NA Up
Average outage rate for all collection trucks (%) 20% 26% 28% 28% 26% * * Up Down
Refuse serviced after scheduled day (%) 1.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% * * Down *
Recycling serviced after scheduled day (%) 1.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 0.1% * * Down *
Empire Bins installed NA NA NA 1,100 1,208 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 153>>>
DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION  |  Page 141
SERVICE 3 Reduce, reuse, and recycle waste.
Goal 3a Increase the amount of waste diverted from disposal.
DSNY disposed of 3.13 million tons of refuse in Fiscal 2026, a decrease of one percent from Fiscal 2025 and again the 
lowest total in recent years, continuing a multi-year downward trend as curbside composting diverts more organic material 
from the waste stream. DSNY-collected recycled tons increased by seven percent, to 719,000 tons, and the DSNY-collected 
diversion rate rose one percentage point, to 19.7 percent. Tons recycled increased six percent citywide, to 917,000 tons, 
and the overall recycling diversion rate rose by one percentage point, to 22.8 percent. Overall, Fiscal 2026 continued the 
years-long trend of increased waste diversion.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Tons of refuse disposed (000) 3,351.1 3,162.5 3,202.5 3,153.6 3,131.3 ò ò Neutral Down
 DSNY-collected recycled tons (000) 616.1 619.2 638.9 669.3 719.0 ñ ñ Up Up
 ® DSNY-collected diversion rate (%) 17.0% 17.2% 17.5% 18.5% 19.7% ñ ñ Up Up
Overall tons recycled (000) 816 797 834 867 917 * * Up Up
Overall recycling diversion rate (%) 19.6% 20.2% 20.7% 21.8% 22.8% * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3b Increase composting.
Tons of organics diverted rose 25 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025, to 205,100 tons, another historic 
high as the citywide curbside composting program continues to mature. Smart Composting Bins deployed decreased 
three percent to 414 sites, and total Smart Bin unlocks fell 42 percent compared to Fiscal 2024’s peak, tracking with the 
continued expansion of curbside composting participation.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Tons of organics diverted (000) 77.4 105.6 129.6 163.5 205.1 ñ ñ Up Up
Smart composting bins deployed NA 419 418 426 414 * * NA *
Smart composting bin unlocks NA 303,500 1,215,618 1,091,398 635,497 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3c Increase the reuse and recycling of textiles, electronics, and harmful household products. 
In Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025, tons of textiles recycled, e-waste recycled, and tons of harmful household products 
recycled remained the same, at 8,000 tons, 8,100 tons, and 1,000 tons, respectively. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Tons of textiles recycled (000) 10.1 6.7 6.6 8.0 8.0 * * Down Up
Tons of e-waste recycled (000) 8.9 8.6 9.9 8.1 8.1 * * Neutral Up
Tons of harmful household products recycled (000) 0.3 1.6 1.7 1.0 1.0 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 154>>>
Page 142  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 4 Prepare and clear snow and ice from City streets and roadways.
Goal 4a Stay ahead and be prepared for winter storms and impacts.
Fiscal 2026 saw a sharp increase in winter weather activity compared to Fiscal 2025. Total snowfall in the winter of Fiscal 
2026 was 45.5 inches, nearly five times the 9.25 inches recorded in Fiscal 2025 and the highest total in 11 years. The 
number of snow activation events held steady at 13, matching Fiscal 2025. To respond to the increased snowfall, tons of 
salt used rose 115 percent, to over 504,000 tons. Brine usage declined three percent, to 267,080 gallons, due to prolonged 
periods of cold weather where brine application is less effective.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Snowfall (total inches) 19.5 2.0 13.0 9.3 45.5 * * Up *
 Snow activation events 17 11 6 13 13 * * Down *
Salt used (tons) 339,842 83,771 196,588 234,845 504,811 * * Up *
Brine used (gallons) 229,935 0 29,200 274,850 267,080 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cases commenced against the City in state and federal court 486 355 293 418 430 * * Neutral *
Payout ($000) $92,307 $76,575 $46,222 $78,473 NA * * NA Down
Private transfer station permits 58 58 58 58 58 * * Neutral *
Private transfer station inspections performed 4,116 4,731 5,895 5,171 5,518 * * Up *
Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings violations issued 240,143 393,940 470,775 663,651 547,346 * * Up *
Violations admitted to or upheld at the Office of Administrative 
Trials and Hearings (%) 87% 91% 90% 93% 92% * * Neutral *
Refuse collection cost per ton ($) $365 $344 $329 $341 NA * * NA *
Refuse cost per ton (fully loaded) ($) $576 $566 $558 $569 NA * * NA *
Disposal cost per ton ($) $211 $222 $229 $228 NA * * NA *
Recycling cost per ton (fully loaded) ($) $733 $779 $829 $896 NA * * NA *
Recycling collection cost per ton ($) $675 $690 $759 $823 NA * * NA *
Paper recycling revenue per ton ($) $19 $15 $13 $13 $14 * * Down *
Workplace injuries reported (uniform and civilian) 987 760 972 1,128 1,115 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 181 36 74 22 13 * * Down *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 92% 89% 85% 93% 98% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 91% 91% 76% 87% 95% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 155>>>
DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION  |  Page 143
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Percent meeting time to close—Missed Collection (5 days) 60% 68% 79% 84% 98% * * Up *
Percent meeting time to close—Dirty Conditions - Trash (7 days) NA 71% 98% 98% 96% * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator ® Equity Indicator “NA” Not Available ñò Directional Target * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $2,040.3 $1,919.3 $1,977.8 $2,057.9 $2,361.1 $2,249.0 $2,137.0 Down
Revenues ($000,000) $20.6 $23.4 $18.4 $18.4 $21.1 $20.2 $23.4 Down
Personnel (uniformed) 7,614 8,045 8,150 8,170 8,403 7,957 8,089 Up
Personnel (civilian) 2,115 1,979 1,872 1,803 1,700 1,946 1,974 Down
Overtime paid ($000,000) $284.4 $176.2 $162.5 $204.7 $322.7 $257.9 $225.2 Down
Capital commitments ($000,000) $170.7 $406.0 $282.8 $277.5 $395.8 $282.8 $210.5 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $1,251.1 $1,415.4 
        101 - Executive Administrative $82.8 $87.3   All
        102 - Cleaning and Collection $956.8 $976.8 1a, 1b, 2a, 3a, 3b, 3c
        103 - Waste Disposal $45.5 $56.8 2a, 3a, 3b, 3c
        104 - Building Management $31.7 $34.9 *
        105 - Bureau of Motor Equipment $85.8 $89.3 All
        107 - Snow Budget $48.5 $170.4 4a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $806.9 $945.7 
        106 - Executive and Administrative $129.8 $168.0 All
        109 - Cleaning and Collection $30.4 $27.8 1a, 1b, 2a, 3a, 3b, 3c
        110 - Waste Disposal $577.8 $604.2 2a, 3a, 3b, 3c
        111 - Building Management $5.0 $6.1 *
        112 - Motor Equipment $28.0 $27.7 All
        113 - Snow Budget $36.0 $112.0 4a
Agency Total $2,057.9 $2,361.1 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.   * None
<<<PAGE 156>>>
Page 144  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Gregory Anderson was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Sanitation in March 2026. 
• DSNY removed the Fiscal 2027 target of 2,500 associated with ‘Vacant lot cleaning requests’ in Goal 1a to match other 
service requests in Goal 1a since DSNY does not have control over how many requests will be made.
• DSNY removed the Fiscal 2027 target of 3,200 associated with ‘Lots cleaned citywide’ in Goal 1a because in Fiscal 2023 
the lot cleaning unit was disbanded. Prior to Fiscal 2023, DSNY had a citywide lot cleaning unit with staff in several 
boroughs. In Fiscal 2024, while one crew per day was added to the lot cleaning unit, the unit’s capabilities have not been 
fully restored.
• Directional targets were removed from ‘Needles removed’ in Goal 1a because the Department does not have control 
over how many needles will be present that require removal.
• In Fiscal 2026, DSNY updated the methodology by which it counts ‘Litter Baskets Serviced’ in Goal 1a and recalculated 
numbers for the previous two fiscal years. Previously, the methodology only accounted for baskets serviced by regularly 
scheduled service crews, however, due to various operational circumstances, there are often supplemental service crews 
assigned to basket routes. The new methodology better takes into account all the dedicated litter basket service routes 
that the Department runs, including those run in the aftermath of a major snowstorm, to ensure that litter baskets are 
accessible to pedestrians. With this change, Fiscal 2024 was updated from 8,816.1 to 9,523.4, and Fiscal 2025 was 
updated from 8,751.8 to 9,798.0. Fiscal year data before Fiscal 2024 should not be compared to data after Fiscal 2024.
• The indicator ‘Alternate side parking and other parking violations issued’ was added to Goal 1b to ensure more detailed 
reporting on enforcement efforts around street sweeping. These violations were previously included within ‘Cleanliness 
violations issued’; DSNY has since updated its methodology for ‘Cleanliness violations issued’ to exclude them, since 
they are now captured separately. This change has significantly lowered the historical values reported for ‘Cleanliness 
violations issued’: Fiscal 2022 was revised from 597,630 to 210,632, Fiscal 2023 from 917,627 to 299,579, Fiscal 2024 
from 992,192 to 352,894, and Fiscal 2025 from 950,598 to 315,884.
• DSNY revised its count of ‘Abandoned vehicles removed from City streets’ in Goal 1b, adjusting the Fiscal 2024 figure 
from 12,932 to 11,408 and the Fiscal 2025 figure from 26,605 to 22,747.
• To capture additional enforcement activity, the indicators ‘Illegal vending summonses and warnings issued’ and ‘Illegal 
mobile car wash summonses issued’ were added to Goal 1b. Enforcement of illegal mobile car washes began in August 
2024, so Fiscal 2025 figures for this indicator reflect a partial year.
• As described in the Fiscal 2025 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report, DSNY implemented new productivity measures 
for its residential curbside collection program, using one combined figure across refuse, recycling, and organics for 
‘Residential curbside tons per truck-shift’ and ‘Residential curbside trucks dumped on shift (%),’ which appear for the 
first time in Goal 2a (Improve efficiency of waste handling). As a result, the indicators ‘Refuse tons per truck-shift,’ 
‘Trucks dumped on shift (%),’ ‘Recycling tons per truck-shift,’ and ‘Recycling trucks dumped on shift (%)’ are no longer 
applicable and have been removed. 
• To separate indicators that address efficiency from those that address diversion, ‘Tons of refuse disposed (000)’ was 
relocated from Goal 2a to Goal 3a, so that it is associated with other recycling and waste diversion measurements. 
‘Recycling serviced after scheduled day (%)’ was moved from Goal 3a to Goal 2a, so that it appears alongside its 
corresponding refuse-related efficiency indicator, ‘Refuse serviced after scheduled day (%).’
• To measure progress towards citywide trash containerization of 10 or more unit buildings, a new indicator ‘Empire Bins 
installed’ was added to Goal 2a. Empire Bins are on-street, sealed, trash containers for larger apartment buildings and 
schools. These bins are assigned to specific properties and are opened with key cards and emptied using new DSNY side-
loading collection trucks. DSNY started to install Empire Bins in April of Fiscal 2025.
• Service 3 was renamed from ‘Recycle waste’ to ‘Reduce, reuse, and recycle waste,’ and Goal 3a was renamed from 
‘Increase the percentage of waste recycled’ to ‘Increase the amount of waste diverted from disposal,’ to better reflect 
the Department’s broader, overarching strategy of redirecting waste away from landfills and incinerators.
<<<PAGE 157>>>
DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION  |  Page 145
• Fiscal 2027 numeric targets have been removed for ‘Tons of refuse disposed (000),’ ‘DSNY-collected recycled tons (000),’ 
and ‘DSNY-collected diversion rate (%),’ in favor of desired direction. While DSNY is dedicated to increasing the amount 
of waste recycled as described in this report, the makeup of the City’s residential waste stream is influenced by factors 
outside the Agency’s control, thus directional targets are more operationally appropriate.
• Goal 3b ‘Enforce recycling regulations’ was removed, with the related changes described below. The critical indicator 
‘Recycling summonses and warnings issued’ was moved from the former Goal 3b, where it was the sole indicator, to 
its current location in Goal 1b ‘Enforce Sanitation regulations,’ to report on sanitation regulations within the same goal.
• Goal 3c was renamed from ‘Expand opportunities to reuse and recycle textile, electronic, and hazardous waste’ to 
‘Increase the reuse and recycling of textiles, electronics, and harmful household products.’ Similarly, the indicator ‘Tons 
of household hazardous waste recycled (000)’ in Goal 3a was changed to ‘Tons of harmful household products recycled 
(000).’ 
• Since curbside composting is now mandatory citywide, the former Service 4, ‘Collect and compost organic material,’ 
was folded into Service 3 ‘Reduce, reuse, and recycle waste’ to better reflect the Department’s overall waste diversion 
goals. Goal 4a ‘Increase composting’ became Goal 3b, formerly ‘Enforce recycling regulations,’ and the former Service 5, 
‘Prepare and clear snow and ice from City streets and roadways,’ was renumbered to Service 4, with Goal 5a becoming 
the new Goal 4a.
• The value for ‘Payout’ in Agencywide Management is not available because starting in Fiscal 2026, values will only be 
reported annually as final audited data in the Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR) rather than as an initial 
estimate in the Mayor’s Management Report (MMR). Historically, initial figures for this indicator were provided by the 
Law Department in the MMR, while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
in the following PMMR. OMB uses a different process and timeline to determine the finalized audited amount disbursed 
by the City, prompting this change to clarify reporting.
• Due to a calculation error, the reported Fiscal 2024 values for the following indicators were updated: ‘Refuse collection 
cost per ton ($)’ changed from $320 to $329, ‘Refuse cost per ton (fully loaded) ($)’ changed from $547 to $558, 
‘Disposal cost per ton ($)’ changed from $226 to $229, ‘Recycling cost per ton (fully loaded) ($)’ changed from $805 to 
$829, and ‘Recycling collection cost per ton ($)’ changed from $742 to $759.
• The indicator ‘Percent meeting time to close—Dirty Condition—Illegal Postering (7 days)’ in the Customer Service Section 
was replaced with ‘Percent meeting time to close—Dirty Condition—Trash (7 days),’ to better reflect the Department’s 
core operations.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Curbside Composting: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/dsny/collection/residents/curbside-composting.page
• Commercial Waste Zones:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/dsny/businesses/commercial-waste-zones.page 
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/dsny.
<<<PAGE 158>>>
Page 146  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 159>>>
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & 
RECREATION Tricia Shimamura, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & RECREATION  |  Page 147
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Parks and 
Recreation (DPR), also referred to as 
NYC Parks, manages and cares for 
New York City’s 2,000 parks, 1,000 
playgrounds, 37 recreation centers, 
66 pools, 800 basketball courts, 
700 public restrooms, 12,000 acres 
of natural areas, 5.6 million trees, 
and 160 miles of shoreline, to 
strengthen the health, environment, 
and communities of the City. NYC 
Parks brings joy to the lives of New 
Yorkers through free facilities and 
13,000 free public programs and 
events. These engaging activities 
also strengthen the social fabric 
of the City’s neighborhoods, 
including free Shape Up NYC fitness 
classes, Kids in Motion children’s 
programming, Urban Park Rangers’ 
nature exploration events and 
camping, concerts, community 
festivals, and dynamic stewardship 
opportunities, right in their own 
neighborhoods. NYC Parks also 
works to empower New Yorkers 
through expanded employment 
opportunities through NYC Parks’ 
green job training, internship, and 
apprenticeship programs.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
NYC Parks’ mission is to grow, maintain, and program a world-class park system 
prioritizing fun, affordability, access, and nature for all. NYC Parks’ efforts build 
on the core principles of good park management: targeted capital investment, 
efficient and effective park maintenance, expansion and protection of natural 
resources, and access to affordable quality public programming. Clean, safe, and 
programmed parks support strong and healthy communities for all New Yorkers. 
To ensure equitable outcomes, NYC Parks has its signature Community Parks 
Initiative (CPI) program. CPI invests on average $54 million in baseline funding 
each year to renovate 10 parks citywide that have gone decades without capital 
renovations. Since Fiscal 2022, CPI has allocated $322 million to 59 projects, and 
the total allocation to CPI sites from Fiscal 2022 to Fiscal 2027 from all funding 
sources is currently $514 million. Early in Calendar 2026, the Agency announced 
the newest ten sites to receive a $60 million investment.
Using NYC Parks’ community-driven design process, CPI will result in new play 
equipment, recreation amenities, and enhanced greenery for beautification, cooling 
and resiliency. NYC Parks also advanced equity in athletic field permits by refining 
rules and policies to better support nonprofit organizations, youth programs, and 
school leagues. The Agency’s 37 recreation centers remain free to everyone under 
24 years of age, and are low cost for seniors, veterans, and the disabled. NYC Parks 
is continuing to build five new recreation centers in neighborhoods historically 
without or with limited recreation facilities. Most recently, NYC Parks opened the 
new Shirley Chisholm Recreation Center in East Flatbush, Brooklyn.
<<<PAGE 160>>>
Page 148  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Manage the City’s parks and recreation facilities.
Goal 1a Ensure that all parks and playgrounds are clean and in good condition.
Goal 1b Provide an overall quality park experience.
SERVICE 2 Manage the City’s street, park, and forest trees.
Goal 2a Maintain and preserve trees under DPR stewardship.
Goal 2b Resolve high-priority tree work promptly.
Goal 2c Increase the number of trees under DPR stewardship.
SERVICE 3 Preserve and expand the infrastructure of New York’s park system.
Goal 3a Build and improve parks and playgrounds in a timely and efficient manner.
Goal 3b Ensure an adequate supply of parkland to meet future needs.
Goal 3c Care for natural areas within parks, including forests, wetlands, and grasslands.
SERVICE 4 Provide recreational and educational opportunities for New Yorkers of all ages.
Goal 4a Increase public attendance at educational programs, recreation centers, and other venues.
Goal 4b Increase volunteer activity at City programs and events.
<<<PAGE 161>>>
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & RECREATION  |  Page 149
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Manage the City’s parks and recreation facilities.
Goal 1a Ensure that all parks and playgrounds are clean and in good condition.
In Fiscal 2026, parks rated acceptable for overall condition remained at 87 percent, exceeding the 85 percent target. Parks 
rated acceptable for cleanliness rose one point to 93 percent, exceeding the 90 percent target. Public restrooms in service 
declined by three percentage points to 91 percent acceptable compared to 94 percent during the same reporting period. 
The winter storms and sub-zero temperatures the City experienced in early Calendar 2026 resulted in significant damage 
to plumbing systems in a large number of public restroom buildings. Some repairs required substantial excavation, which 
could not be done until warmer weather. Moreover, supply chain and fiscal constraints contributed to delays in acquiring 
needed parts and supplies.
Between Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2026, play equipment and safety surfaces rated acceptable fell below target to 94 percent 
and 93 percent, respectively. As NYC Parks’ play equipment ages, it becomes more difficult to obtain replacement parts 
to make repairs. Agency staff must search for longer periods of time to find parts or, in some cases, fabricate parts. This 
can result in play equipment being out of service longer than is typical. The increasing frequency and intensity of storms 
have accelerated deterioration of some safety surfaces. Brief and heavy downpours can dislodge and wash away safety 
surface tiles. A limited number of manufacturers, supply chain issues, and cost increases have impacted NYC Parks’ ability 
to acquire sufficient stock to replace damaged tiles.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Parks rated acceptable for overall condition (%) 86% 87% 89% 87% 87% 85% 85% Neutral Up
– Overall condition of small parks and playgrounds (%) 86% 87% 90% 87% 86% * * Neutral Up
– Overall condition of large parks (%) 80% 84% 86% 85% 87% * * Neutral Up
– Overall condition of greenstreets (%) 93% 91% 90% 90% 92% * * Neutral Up
 Parks rated acceptable for cleanliness (%) 92% 93% 94% 92% 93% 90% 90% Neutral Up
– Cleanliness of small parks and playgrounds (%) 93% 93% 94% 92% 92% * * Neutral Up
– Cleanliness of large parks (%) 88% 89% 92% 90% 92% * * Neutral Up
– Cleanliness of greenstreets (%) 98% 98% 99% 98% 99% * * Neutral Up
 Play equipment rated acceptable (%) 96% 96% 96% 96% 94% 95% 95% Neutral Up
 Safety surfaces rated acceptable (%) 93% 94% 94% 94% 93% 95% 95% Neutral Up
 Public restrooms in service (in season only) (%) 96% 94% 96% 94% 91% 95% 95% Neutral Up
 Spray showers in service (in season only) (%) 98% 98% 95% 94% 96% 95% 95% Neutral Up
 Drinking fountains in service (in season only) (%) 95% 96% 94% 97% 95% 95% 95% Neutral Up
 Recreation centers rated acceptable for cleanliness (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 95% 95% Neutral Up
 Recreation centers rated acceptable for overall condition (%) 87% 79% 80% 89% 91% 85% 85% Neutral Up
Monuments receiving annual maintenance (%) 81% 79% 75% 70% 70% * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 162>>>
Page 150  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1b Provide an overall quality park experience.
NYC Parks works closely with the New York City Police Department (NYPD) who ensures a positive and safe experience for 
all park visitors throughout the City’s parks. Reported crimes against persons in Fiscal 2026 increased two percent to 616 
compared to 606 in Fiscal 2025, and crimes against property increased two percent to 475 in Fiscal 2026 compared to 467 
in Fiscal 2025.
The total number of summonses issued in Fiscal 2026 increased to 23,312 compared to 18,589 in Fiscal 2025, reflecting 
both expanded staffing levels and a continued emphasis on addressing quality of life conditions across the park system.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Major felonies reported on NYC Parks properties — Crimes 
against persons 626 601 673 606 616 ò ò Neutral Down
 – Crimes against property 525 588 551 467 475 ò ò Down Down
Summonses issued 24,511 24,461 22,933 18,589 23,312 * * Down *
Violations admitted to or upheld at the Office of Administrative 
Trials and Hearings (%) 90.8% 90.4% 89.9% 86.1% 82.9% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Manage the City’s street, park, and forest trees.
Goal 2a Maintain and preserve trees under DPR stewardship.
A total of 34,532 street trees were pruned through the block pruning program in Fiscal 2026, a 47 percent decrease from 
Fiscal 2025. One of NYC Parks’ block pruning contractors, which held the two largest contracts in Brooklyn and Queens, 
unexpectedly closed their business at the start of Fiscal 2026. The Agency was able to secure new contracts in the second 
half of the fiscal year, but there was not enough time to reach the annual pruning goal of 65,000 street trees pruned, sitting 
at 53 percent. With contracts now registered in all five boroughs, the Agency expects to meet this goal in Fiscal 2027. 
A total of 12,937 trees were removed in Fiscal 2026, a 25 percent increase from the 10,352 removed in Fiscal 2025. The 
City experienced several storm events in Fiscal 2026, resulting in an elevated number of fallen and damaged trees requiring 
removal. Tree removals and plantings are tracked as separate programs and are not directly comparable on a one-to-one 
basis.
A total of 167,134 tree inspections were performed in Fiscal 2026, an 11 percent increase from Fiscal 2025. This indicator 
includes inspections performed both by in-house inspectors, who respond to urgent safety concerns from the public, and 
consultants who write work orders for block pruning and other maintenance contracts. The number of storm events in 
Fiscal 2026 contributed to this rise in inspections, as NYC Parks redirected staff from other duties to inspect storm-related 
conditions as quickly as possible. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Street trees pruned — Block program 43,463 46,097 54,448 64,673 34,532 65,000 65,000 Neutral Up
– Annual pruning goal completed (%) 67% 71% 84% 99% 53% * * Neutral Up
– Street trees pruned as a percent of pruning eligible trees 8% 8% 10% 12% 6% * * Neutral Up
Trees removed 11,686 9,955 9,548 10,352 12,937 * * Up *
Tree inspections 184,449 80,187 142,656 150,743 167,134 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 163>>>
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & RECREATION  |  Page 151
Goal 2b Resolve high-priority tree work promptly.
In Fiscal 2026, 99 percent of immediate priority and 100 percent of high-priority tree work were resolved on time. This 
represents a three percentage-point improvement for immediate priority work and a one percentage-point improvement, 
respectively, for high-priority work. Tree risk prioritization involves assessing the likelihood and consequences of a tree or 
branch falling and impacting people or property. The Agency aims to address all immediate priority work within seven days, 
and high-priority work within 28 days.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Immediate priority tree work resolved within 7 days (%) 99% 98% 97% 96% 99% * * Neutral *
 High-priority tree work resolved within 28 days (%) 97% 98% 99% 99% 100% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2c Increase the number of trees under DPR stewardship.
A total of 55,979 trees were planted in Fiscal 2026, a 61 percent increase from Fiscal 2025 and the highest total since Fiscal 
2016. Trees planted along City streets accounted for 19,850 of this total, a 12 percent increase from Fiscal 2025 and the 
program’s highest street tree output since Fiscal 2016, driven by the Agency’s new Neighborhood Tree Planting Program, an 
equity and data-driven approach focuses tree plantings across entire neighborhoods on a cyclical basis, prioritizing the most 
heat vulnerable areas first. This included over 9,000 trees planted in Heat Vulnerability Index (HVI) 4 and 5 neighborhoods, 
the most in any year since the Cool Neighborhoods initiative began in Fiscal 2018. Tree planting in landscaped areas of 
parks decreased 43 percent to 3,337 in Fiscal 2026, from 5,839 Fiscal in 2025. Tree planting in landscaped areas of parks 
can fluctuate based on planting opportunities, park maintenance capacity, and the timeline of interagency construction 
projects on parkland. The City released the first-ever Urban Forest Plan (UFP) in April 2026. The UFP lays out a comprehensive 
roadmap to preserve tree canopy, plant more trees, and cultivate an ecosystem of stewardship.
Trees planted in natural areas of parks had a 191 percent increase to 32,792 in Fiscal 2026 compared to 11,272 in Fiscal 
2025. This was primarily due to significant tree replacement and forest restoration projects in the natural areas of McGuire 
Fields and Marine Park in Brooklyn, where over 26,000 trees were planted by contractors in Fiscal 2026. The majority of 
the plantings at McGuire Fields were to replace trees lost during the Department of Transportation’s (DOT) reconstruction 
of the Mill Basin Bridge. This project began with site preparation in Calendar 2023 and will conclude with final plantings 
in fall 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Trees planted 32,468 31,088 42,028 34,878 55,979 ñ ñ Up Up
– Trees planted along City streets 14,842 14,834 16,129 17,767 19,850 * * Up Up
– Trees planted on landscaped areas of parks 3,096 3,760 4,534 5,839 3,337 * * Up Up
– Trees planted in natural areas of parks 14,530 12,494 21,365 11,272 32,792 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 164>>>
Page 152  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 3 Preserve and expand the infrastructure of New York’s park system.
Goal 3a Build and improve parks and playgrounds in a timely and efficient manner.
In Fiscal 2026, NYC Parks completed 124 capital projects, exceeding the target of 120. Of those projects, 88 percent 
were completed on time or early, and 96 percent were completed within budget, surpassing targets of 80 percent and 
85 percent respectively. The portfolio of completed construction included the delivery of new parks, playgrounds, athletic 
fields, public restroom buildings, sustainability features, and more across all five boroughs, while achieving accessibility 
improvements in 100 percent of the eligible projects. In Staten Island, new public restroom buildings at the Owl Hollow 
Fields ($4.1 million), located in a heavily used area of Freshkills Park, and the Seaside Wildlife Nature Park ($6.7 million), 
which navigated flood plain challenges along the waterfront, brought much needed bathroom amenities to these parks. In 
the Bronx, the construction of Grant Park ($13.6 million) converted a former roadbed and unused lots into a 4.7 acre park 
with an open lawn area, basketball court, adult fitness area, along with new seating and plantings. Legacy sites across the 
City responded to community requests for upgrades and reconstruction, including the reconstruction of the Astoria Park 
Great Lawn Pathways ($3.26 million) in Queens and the Inwood Hill Park ballfields reconstruction and lighting installation 
($4.47M) in Manhattan. The Bushwick Inlet Park Remediation and Passive Seating Area Construction ($7.21 million) 
sustainably transformed and expanded access to Brooklyn’s waterfront.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Capital projects completed 121 144 142 128 124 120 110 Neutral *
 Capital projects completed on time or early (%) 80% 88% 85% 82% 88% 80% 80% Neutral Up
Capital projects completed within budget (%) 86% 90% 93% 92% 96% 85% 85% Up Up
Eligible capital projects including accessibility improvements (%) NA 100% 100% 100% 100% * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3b Ensure an adequate supply of parkland to meet future needs.
New Yorkers living within walking distance of a park increased to 84.4 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to 84.2 percent 
in Fiscal 2025. This increase is due to the opening of two Department of Education schoolyards in Brooklyn—PS 204 and 
PS 35—a new Waterfront Public Access Area (WPAA) opening along Sherman Creek in Manhattan, and the inclusion of a 
New York City DOT plaza near Penn Station in Manhattan. NYC Parks also evaluated four Privately Owned Public Spaces 
(POPS) along Emmons Avenue in Brooklyn and found they qualified for inclusion into the analysis for the first time. POPS 
are indoor or outdoor plazas, atriums, and pocket parks owned and maintained by private building owners who received 
zoning permits to build larger structures in exchange for providing these community areas.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 ® New Yorkers living within walking distance of a park (%) 83.6% 83.9% 83.9% 84.2% 84.4% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 165>>>
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & RECREATION  |  Page 153
Goal 3c Care for natural areas within parks, including forests, wetlands, and grasslands.
The Agency’s Natural Resources Group (NRG) and volunteers work year-round to protect and conserve the over 12,000 
acres of forests, wetlands, and grasslands across the City. The team cared for a total of 757 acres in Fiscal 2026, a 33 
percent increase compared to Fiscal 2025. City Council annual funding was reinstated in Fiscal 2026 as one-time funding 
and baselined in Fiscal 2027, allowing new staff to be hired across NRG. This funding was particularly valuable in Staten 
Island, where natural area maintenance had been deferred. In Fiscal 2026 a natural areas management crew was hired to 
care for natural areas across Staten Island, including a recently restored forest in Willowbrook Park. 
In addition to trees, NRG planted 36,421 native shrubs and herbaceous plants in Fiscal 2026, a decrease of two percent 
compared to Fiscal 2025. Shrubs and herbaceous plants build structural diversity in a natural area and provide habitat and 
food for birds and other wildlife. These planting efforts were highlighted by large beachgrass plantings in Coney Island 
Creek Park, herbaceous plantings in Idlewild, and saltmarsh plantings in Cross Island Parkway. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Acres of natural areas cared for NA 1,224.4 767.8 569.0 757.0 * * NA Up
Number of native plants (non-trees) planted in natural areas NA 57,173 51,718 37,341 36,421 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 4 Provide recreational and educational opportunities for New Yorkers of all ages.
Goal 4a Increase public attendance at educational programs, recreation centers, and other venues.
Total recreation center memberships and attendance increased in Fiscal 2026. Memberships increased from 156,078 to 
176,140, a 13 percent increase reaching a 15-year high, with growth spanning all membership categories and bolstered by 
the opening of the Shirley Chisholm Recreation Center in February 2026. Attendance rose from 2,057,794 to 2,111,134, 
a three percent increase, driven by increases among young adults and youth and children even as senior, adult, and visitor 
attendance declined.
Attendance at non-recreation center programs increased from 500,067 in Fiscal 2025 to 797,642 in Fiscal 2026, an increase 
of 60 percent. This was mainly due to a large increase in youth program attendees, from 363,248 to 649,151, especially for 
the Kids in Motion program, attributed to more effective outreach and quality programming. Adult program attendance, 
such as for Shape Up NYC, NYC Parks’ fitness program that offers free group fitness classes, increased from 30,493 to 
33,788, an 11 percent increase. NYC Parks also saw an increase in attendance for Urban Park Ranger programming and 
facilities, from 106,326 to 114,703.
Outdoor pool attendance for Olympic and Intermediate pools slightly decreased, from 996,660 in Fiscal 2025 to 969,280 
in Fiscal 2026. NYC Parks certified 1,166 new and returning lifeguards for the summer 2026 season, an increase over 
summer 2025 and a 41 percent increase over summer 2023. Through various recruitment events and changes to the NYC 
Parks lifeguard qualification test and training program, the summer 2026 season included 287 new first-year lifeguards.
Attendance at historic house museums increased four percent, from 820,572 in Fiscal 2025 to 851,678 in Fiscal 2026, 
marking the second consecutive year of growth and the highest attendance since Fiscal 2022. 
To connect more New Yorkers to the excitement of the 2026 FIFA World Cup being hosted in the City, NYC Parks hosted 
soccer-themed screenings through its Movies Under the Stars series, along with soccer events that included clinics and 
competitive play for youth. The Movie Under the Stars program is a free public outdoor movie series hosted jointly by NYC 
Parks and the Mayor’s Office of Media and Entertainment. It features hundreds of free film screenings, including family 
favorites, blockbusters, and classics, across parks, playgrounds, and green spaces in all five boroughs during the summer 
and fall.
<<<PAGE 166>>>
Page 154  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total recreation center memberships 100,385 117,116 141,486 156,078 176,140 ñ ñ Up Up
– Seniors NA 16,199 17,468 18,146 20,416 * * NA Up
– Adults NA 24,315 25,859 25,159 30,945 * * NA Up
– Young adults (subset of adult membership) NA 24,598 34,791 43,576 51,488 * * NA Up
– Youth and children NA 52,004 63,368 69,197 73,291 * * NA Up
 Total recreation center attendance 776,001 1,647,046 1,870,379 2,057,794 2,111,134 ñ ñ Up Up
– Seniors NA 409,349 475,810 499,423 478,736 * * NA Up
– Adults NA 480,592 574,936 597,771 528,552 * * NA Up
– Young adults (subset of adult attendance) NA 199,405 232,290 250,646 368,934 * * NA Up
– Youth and children NA 353,867 398,811 407,932 435,870 * * NA Up
– Visitors NA 203,833 188,532 302,022 299,042 * * NA Up
 Attendance at outdoor Olympic and intermediate pools 
(pool season) 986,448 864,216 974,931 996,660 969,280 * * Neutral *
Attendance at historic house museums 540,287 714,326 667,929 820,572 851,678 * * Up Up
Attendance at skating rinks 500,675 481,345 537,341 537,895 498,642 * * Neutral Up
Total attendance at non-recreation center programs 385,140 518,150 602,003 500,067 797,642 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 4b Increase volunteer activity at City programs and events.
Community partner groups engaged by Partnerships for Parks decreased to 461 in Fiscal 2026 from 513 in Fiscal 2025, a 
10 percent decrease. Total volunteer turnout also decreased, to 37,178 from 38,845, driven in part by fewer Partnerships 
for Parks volunteers following a two-month pause of summer 2025 It’s My Park Day volunteer events. Volunteer turnout 
at stewardship events, such as planting, tree care, and natural area care, remained strong in Fiscal 2026. Funding from 
the Inflation Reduction Act via U.S. Forest Service grants expanded the capacity of the stewardship team to respond to 
new volunteer project requests, support existing Super Steward community programming, and grow the cohort of active 
Care Captains, or advanced volunteers who care for street trees in the right of way. Recreation volunteer-led classes also 
increased 23 percent in Fiscal 2026. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Community partner groups engaged by Partnerships for Parks 485 568 499 513 461 * * Neutral Up
Volunteer turnout 32,413 38,109 39,186 38,845 37,178 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cases commenced against the City in state and federal court 334 293 234 340 308 * * Neutral *
Payout ($000) $28,549 $24,640 $57,031 $34,604 NA * * NA Down
Workplace injuries reported 494 457 680 711 846 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 167>>>
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & RECREATION  |  Page 155
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 73% 76% 79% 86% 76% 60% 60% Neutral Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 83% 85% 86% 90% 91% 60% 60% Neutral Up
Completed requests for interpretation 283 290 544 637 545 * * Up *
CORE facility rating 100 97 99 97 100 85 85 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Response to 311 Service Requests (SRs) FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total public service requests received — Forestry 91,785 92,225 110,413 86,146 88,256 * * Neutral *
– Downed Trees, downed limbs, and hanging limbs 23,337 19,428 28,110 23,477 31,078 * * Up *
Damaged Tree — Branch or Limb Has Fallen Down — % of SRs 
Meeting Time to First Action (8 days) 77% 73% 81% 83% 87% 95% 95% Up *
Percent meeting time to first action — Dead Tree — Dead/Dying 
Tree (30 days for trees planted within a 2 year period, 7 days for all 
other trees) 66% 67% 72% 75% 75% 90% 90% Up *
Percent meeting time to first action — Overgrown Tree/Branches — 
Hitting Building (30 days) 78% 52% 73% 28% 82% 95% 95% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action — Root/Sewer/Sidewalk Condi -
tion —- Trees and Sidewalks Program (30 days) 14% 13% 30% 12% 14% 85% 85% Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $588.2 $614.3 $639.0 $650.8 $724.2 $709.9 $708.9 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $55.7 $69.7 $69.8 $79.2 $92.9 $70.3 $93.1 Up
Personnel (Total FT and FTE) 7,198 6,785 6,802 6,868 7,271 8,144 8,119 Neutral
Full-time equivalent (FTE) personnel 3,448 2,386 2,526 2,297 2,429 3,002 2,861 Neutral
  - Parks Opportunity Program (POP) participants 819 1,084 895 1,013 1,018 1,070 1,070 Up
Overtime paid ($000,000) $29.9 $30.3 $27.8 $25.8 $18.4 $14.8 $15.0 Down
Capital commitments ($000,000) $538.4 $553.8 $622.2 $668.4 $660.9 $1,087.7 $1,046.8 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None          4The Parks Opportunity Program participants, reflected as full-time equivalents, are a subtotal of the Department’s total Personnel count reported above.
<<<PAGE 168>>>
Page 156  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $509.5 $548.8 
        001 - Executive Management and Administrative Services $10.6 $11.0 All
        002 - Maintenance and Operations $409.2 $407.0 1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a, 4a, 4b
        003 - Design and Engineering $53.9 $56.9 2c, 3a, 3b
        004 - Recreation Services $35.8 $38.7 4a, 4b
        011 - Urban Park Service4 NA $35.3 1b
Other Than Personal Services - Total $141.3 $175.4 
        006 - Maintenance and Operations $107.3 $130.9 1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a, 4a, 4b
        007 - Executive Management and Administrative Services $29.1 $37.4 All
        009 - Recreation Services $2.2 $3.1 4a, 4b
        010 - Design and Engineering $2.7 $3.1 2c, 3a, 3b
        012 - Urban Park Service 4 NA $0.8 1b
Agency Total $650.8 $724.2 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.   4This UA originated in Fiscal 2026.     “NA” Not Available
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Tricia Shimamura was appointed as Commissioner of the Department of Parks and Recreation in January 2026.
• Previously published Fiscal 2025 figures for the following indicators in Goal 2c were revised after internal data review: 
 − ‘Trees planted’ was revised from 34,667 to 34,878. 
 − ‘Trees planted on landscaped areas of parks’ was revised from 5,628 to 5,839.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Capital projects completed’ in Goal 3a was revised from 120 to 110.
• Previously published Fiscal 2025 figures for the following indicators in Goal 4a were revised after internal data review:
 − ‘Attendance at outdoor Olympic and intermediate pools (pool season)’ was revised from 1,008,021 to 996,660.
 − ‘Total attendance at non-recreation center programs’ was revised from 466,320 to 500,067. 
• The value for ‘Payout’ in Agency-wide Management is not available because starting in Fiscal 2026, values will only be 
reported annually as final audited data in the Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR) rather than as an initial 
estimate in the Mayor’s Management Report (MMR). Historically, initial figures for this indicator were provided by the 
Law Department in the MMR, while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
in the following PMMR. OMB uses a different process and timeline to determine the finalized audited amount disbursed 
by the City, prompting this change to clarify reporting.
<<<PAGE 169>>>
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS & RECREATION  |  Page 157
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• New York City Parks Inspection Program Results:  
http://www.nycgovparks.org/park-features/parks-inspection-program
• Volunteer opportunities in New York City Parks:  
https://www.nycgovparks.org/opportunities/volunteer/groups
• Vital Parks Explorer: 
www.nyc.gov/parks/explorer
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nycgovparks.org.
<<<PAGE 170>>>
Page 158  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 171>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS 
Diya Vij, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS  |  Page 159
FOCUS ON EQUITY
In order to ensure that all New Yorkers have access to the City’s vibrant cultural life, 
DCLA advances equity with programs and initiatives aimed at ensuring that art and 
culture are woven into neighborhoods and communities throughout the five boroughs. 
In Long Island City, Queens, DCLA’s Materials for the Arts (MFTA) program continues 
to operate the City’s largest creative reuse center, providing free materials in support 
of affordable, accessible arts programming in all five boroughs, all while reducing 
the amount of reusable materials which end up in the landfill. In Fiscal 2026, DCLA 
continued to provide services to longtime members, including arts nonprofits, public 
school teachers, and City agencies with arts programming, and operated the MFTA 
Education Center, which offers both students and educators training and programs 
rooted in creative reuse. In Fiscal 2026, MFTA saw an increase in the total number 
of members served, schools served, total transactions, and value of contributed 
materials, demonstrating how valued this program is across New York City’s arts and 
culture landscape by arts providers and material donors alike. 
The Cultural Development Fund (CDF), DCLA’s competitive, peer-evaluated 
grant process that supports a broad, multidisciplinary group of diverse nonprofit 
organizations for their cultural services to City residents, continues to implement 
reforms with an eye towards identifying and reducing bias. These reforms have 
reshaped how grant awards are distributed to support cultural programming in every 
community across New York City, with a particular focus on reaching areas that have 
experienced historic underinvestment. In Fiscal 2026, CDF provided $74.2 million in 
grants to 1,171 cultural organizations, an all-time record for both funding amount 
and groups supported, in support of a vast range of publicly accessible cultural 
programming in all five boroughs. In Fiscal 2026, 96 percent of all CDF grantees 
offered free or subsidized programs to make cultural activity more affordable and 
accessible for New Yorkers.
DCLA has a longstanding public-private partnership with institutions on DCLA-owned 
property, known as the Cultural Institutions Group (CIG). These 39 institutions serve 
as community anchors, education hubs, and spaces for artists and New Yorkers to 
experience the inspiration, joy, and curiosity that art and culture provide. In Fiscal 
2026, the Metropolitan Museum of Art became the second member of the CIG (after 
the American Museum of Natural History) to offer free memberships to Supplemental 
Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) recipients in the City. Nearly 1.7 million New 
York City residents rely on SNAP , and this initiative ensures that individuals and 
families navigating economic strain still have access to free, high-quality cultural 
experiences in a safe, intergenerational public space, and are offered opportunities 
for learning, reflection, and connection. Offered in collaboration with the Department 
of Social Services (DSS), this new membership shows how the CIG and DCLA can 
collaborate to offer more open and equitable programming for all New Yorkers. 
Taken together, DCLA’s work supports the cultural life of every community across 
New York City. The Agency will continue to build on these achievements, working 
with partners across City government and the cultural sector to foster a more socially 
and economically just City for all New Yorkers.
WHAT WE DO
The New York City Department of 
Cultural Affairs (DCLA) is dedicated 
to supporting and strengthening 
New York City’s vibrant cultural life. 
Among the Department’s primary 
missions is to ensure adequate 
public funding for non-profit cultural 
organizations, both large and small, 
throughout the five boroughs. DCLA 
also works to promote and advocate 
for quality arts programming and to 
articulate the contribution made 
by the cultural community to the 
City’s social wellbeing and economic 
vitality. The Department represents 
and serves non-profit cultural 
organizations involved in the visual, 
literary and performing arts; public-
oriented science and humanities 
institutions including zoos, botanical 
gardens and historic and preservation 
societies; and creative artists at all 
skill levels who live and work within 
the City’s five boroughs.
<<<PAGE 172>>>
Page 160  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Provide financial support to the City’s non-profit arts and cultural sector for operations,
programs and activities.
Goal 1a Process grant payments promptly.
Goal 1b Strengthen the infrastructure of cultural facilities by funding capital improvements.
Goal 1c Expand resources for arts programs and public schools by increasing the supply and use of donated materials.
SERVICE 2 Promote public appreciation of non-profit arts and culture.
Goal 2a Increase public awareness of the cultural programming offered throughout the five boroughs.
<<<PAGE 173>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS  |  Page 161
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Provide financial support to the City’s non-profit arts and cultural sector for operations,
programs and activities.
Goal 1a Process grant payments promptly.
In Fiscal 2026, increased funding allowed DCLA to expand its support across every major grant and payment program. The 
Department awarded $289.3 million in total financial support to qualifying organizations, a 17 percent increase over Fiscal 
2025 and the Agency’s highest level of support to date.
This growth was driven in part by the Cultural Development Fund (CDF), which awarded payments to 1,171 program 
organizations in Fiscal 2026, a nine percent increase over the 1,078 organizations awarded the previous year. DCLA issued 
the final payments for these awards in an average of 10 days, consistent with the 10-day average in Fiscal 2025. Fiscal 
2026 data for the time to issue final CDF payments is preliminary and will be finalized in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s 
Management Report.
DCLA also increased operating support to Cultural Institutions Group (CIG) members, providing $181.6 million in Fiscal 2026, 
an 18 percent increase over Fiscal 2025. This additional funding was paired with faster, more reliable payment delivery. The 
share of operating support payments made to CIG members by the 5th day of each month rose 13 percentage points, to 
85 percent, driven by earlier submission deadlines and better-aligned internal processes over the course of the fiscal year. 
The Department will continue to coordinate with CIG institutions on timely submission of their obligation plans.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Program organizations awarded Cultural Development Fund pay -
ments 1,022 1,096 1,031 1,078 1,171 * * Up *
 Average days to issue final Cultural Development Fund payments 12 10 10 10 10 7 7 Down Down
 Average days to issue initial Cultural Development Fund pay -
ments after complying with all City requirements 21 16 10 10 10 9 9 Down Down
 Operational support to Cultural Institutions Group ($000,000) $121.8 $147.1 $126.9 $154.4 $181.6 * * Up *
Operating support payments made to Cultural Institutions Group by 
the 5th day of each month (%) 81% 89% 86% 72% 85% 90% 90% Neutral Up
Financial support provided to qualifying organizations ($000,000) $206.0 $239.4 $212.4 $246.5 $289.3 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Strengthen the infrastructure of cultural facilities by funding capital improvements.
DCLA’s Capital Unit supports construction and renovation projects and equipment procurement at eligible cultural institutions 
throughout the five boroughs. In Fiscal 2026, 40 capital projects were authorized to proceed, four more than the 36 
projects authorized to proceed in Fiscal 2025. The Capital Unit initiated 98 percent of planned projects in Fiscal 2026, a 14 
percentage-point increase over the 84 percent initiated in Fiscal 2025. The Capital Unit continues to forecast cautiously as 
project cost escalation remains a significant challenge to the cultural community.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Capital projects authorized to proceed 50 42 40 36 40 * * Down *
 Capital projects planned that were initiated (%) 100% 95% 89% 84% 98% 75% 75% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 174>>>
Page 162  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1c Expand resources for arts programs and public schools by increasing the supply and use of donated 
materials.
Through MFTA, DCLA collects unneeded items from businesses and individuals and makes these donations available for 
free to nonprofit organizations with arts programming, government agencies, and public schools. Despite a nine percent 
drop in donors, from 6,235 in Fiscal 2025 to 5,662 in Fiscal 2026, the program still grew the value of materials contributed 
slightly, from $15.9 million to $16.1 million, and served more recipients overall, reaching 1,965 schools, nonprofits, and 
City/State agencies in Fiscal 2026, up from 1,879 in Fiscal 2025. MFTA partners with The Arts Office at the Department 
of Education each school year to encourage schools to apply for membership, and offers late-night shopping for teachers 
only on the first Thursday of each month during the school year.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Value of contributed Materials for the Arts (MFTA) materials and 
equipment ($000,000) $13.3 $28.0 $28.1 $15.9 $16.1 $25.0 $25.0 Down Up
Schools, non-profits and City/State agencies served by Materials for 
the Arts 1,181 3,516 1,967 1,879 1,965 * 1,500 Neutral Up
 Materials For The Arts transactions 1,857 5,905 8,393 8,008 8,282 10,000 10,000 Up Up
Materials For The Arts donors 1,538 2,329 6,317 6,235 5,662 9,000 9,000 Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Promote public appreciation of non-profit arts and culture.
Goal 2a Increase public awareness of the cultural programming offered throughout the five boroughs.
In Fiscal 2026, nearly 32.5 million visitors attended the 39 City-owned 
museums, performing arts centers, botanical gardens, and historical 
sites that comprise the Cultural Institutions Group (CIG). This represents 
a 37 percent increase from the 23.7 million visitors in Fiscal 2025. 
Additionally, 51 percent of visitors to the CIGs used free admission 
and/or tickets, an increase of 12 percentage points over Fiscal 2025. 
These increases are primarily due to the addition of five new members 
to the CIG in October 2025, which was the largest expansion of the 
CIG since the 1970s. 
Cultural Development Fund seminar views rose 53 percent from 803 
in Fiscal 2025 to 1,226 in Fiscal 2026. This increase stems in part from 
the increase in organizations receiving CDF awards as well as a new 
dedicated budgeted tutorial video for prospective applications. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Visitors to the Cultural Institutions Group (000) 16,228 17,635 26,145 23,678 32,490 * * Up Up
– Visitors using free admission and/or tickets (%) 42% 27% 33% 39% 51% * * Up Up
 Cultural Development Fund seminar views NA 1,200 967 803 1,226 ñ ñ NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
0
7000
14000
21000
28000
35000
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Visitors to Cultural Institutions Group (000)
23,678
32,490
16,228
17,635
26,145
<<<PAGE 175>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS  |  Page 163
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 38% 28% 32% 49% 88% 88% 88% Up Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) NA NA NA NA 67% 90% 90% NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $229.8 $245.0 $222.6 $257.4 $300.1 $300.7 $323.8 Up
Personnel 61 64 65 67 63 71 66 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000) $0 $7 $10 $19 $0 $0 $0 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $55.7 $54.1 $268.5 $69.7 $350.7 $544.6 $233.0 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 176>>>
Page 164  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $6.0 $6.0 
        001 - Office of the Commissioner $6.0 $6.0 All
Other Than Personal Services - Total $251.3 $294.1 
        002 - Office of the Commissioner $2.9 $3.4 All
        003 - Cultural Programs $92.0 $106.6 1a, 1b
        004 - Metropolitan Museum of Art $28.3 $30.8 1a, 1b
        005 - New York Botanical Garden $9.8 $11.3 1a, 1b
        006 - American Museum of Natural History $21.4 $25.7 1a, 1b
        007 - The Wildlife Conservation Society $21.1 $24.4 1a, 1b
        008 - Brooklyn Museum $11.3 $15.0 1a, 1b
        009 - Brooklyn Children’s Museum $3.1 $3.8 1a, 1b
        010 - Brooklyn Botanical Garden $5.9 $7.0 1a, 1b
        011 - Queens Botanical Garden $2.6 $2.9 1a, 1b
        012 - New York Hall of Science $2.9 $3.4 1a, 1b
        013 - Staten Island Institute of Arts and Sciences $1.5 $1.7 1a, 1b
        014 - Staten Island Zoological Society $2.8 $3.2 1a, 1b
        015 - Staten Island Historical Society $1.2 $1.4 1a, 1b
        016 - Museum of the City of New York $2.5 $2.8 1a, 1b
        017 - Wave Hill $2.3 $2.6 1a, 1b
        019 - Brooklyn Academy of Music $7.7 $8.3 1a, 1b
        020 - Snug Harbor Cultural Center $3.0 $3.4 1a, 1b
        021 - Studio Museum in Harlem $0.9 $1.2 1a, 1b
        022 - Other Cultural Institutions $26.8 $33.6 1a, 1b
        024 - New York Shakespeare Festival $1.4 $1.5 1a, 1b
Agency Total $257.4 $300.1 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter. 
<<<PAGE 177>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS  |  Page 165
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Commissioner Diya Vij was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Cultural Affairs in February 2026.
• Previously reported Materials for the Arts Fiscal 2024 and Fiscal 2025 indicator values in Goal 1c have been revised. 
Observed decreases are the result of a double submission that was mistakenly added to the total: 
 − For ‘Value of contributed Materials for the Arts (MFTA) materials and equipment ($000,000),’ the Fiscal 2024 value 
was updated from $37.6 to $28.1. The Fiscal 2025 value was updated from $27.1 to $15.9.
 − For ‘Schools, non-profits and City/State agencies served by Materials for the Arts,’ the Fiscal 2024 value was 
updated from 4,111 to 1,967. The Fiscal 2025 value was updated from 4,292 to 1,879.
 − For ‘Materials For The Arts transactions,’ the Fiscal 2024 value was updated from 11,161 to 8,393. The Fiscal 2025 
value was updated from 11,374 to 8,008.
 − For ‘Materials for the Arts donors,’ the Fiscal 2024 value was updated from 9,387 to 6,317. The Fiscal 2025 value 
was updated from 9,876 to 6,235. 
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Schools, non-profits and City/State agencies served by Materials for the Arts’ in Goal 1c was 
set to 1,500.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
• Materials for the Arts: 
https://www1.nyc.gov/content/mfta/pages/
• Cultural Development Fund (CDF): 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/dcla/cultural-funding/about-cdf-registration.page
For more information on the agency, please visit: http://www.nyc.gov/culture.
<<<PAGE 178>>>
Page 166  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 179>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER  
AND WORKER PROTECTION  
Samuel A. A. Levine, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AND WORKER PROTECTION  |  Page 167
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Consumer 
and Worker Protection (DCWP) 
is the nation’s leading municipal 
enforcement agency, charged with 
delivering economic justice for 
consumers, workers, and businesses 
across New York City. DCWP brings 
New Yorkers real economic relief 
and protects them from predatory, 
deceptive, and unfair practices that 
violate their rights as consumers and 
workers. This includes pioneering 
cutting-edge protections for New 
Yorkers, such as the City’s Consumer 
Protection Law, Protected Time 
Off Law, Fair Workweek Law, 
and Delivery Worker Laws. Across 
New York City, DCWP levels the 
economic playing field by licensing 
more than 45,000 businesses in 
over 45 industries, and providing 
essential services including free tax 
preparation and financial counseling 
to ensure New Yorkers keep more of 
what they earn and can plan for their 
futures. This work ensures that New 
York City is a fairer, more affordable 
place to live for all.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
The core of DCWP’s mission is to create thriving communities, which can be 
achieved only through advancing equity. As a result, DCWP places great emphasis 
on identifying and addressing areas of inequity across consumer protection, 
business licensing, financial empowerment, and worker protection, using a multi-
pronged approach of advocacy, education, and enforcement to effect change.
To promote equity in the workplace, DCWP enforces the broad scope of New York 
City’s worker protection laws. This enforcement ensures workers have access to 
paid safe (time off for safety reasons such as domestic violence, sexual assault, 
stalking, or trafficking) and sick leave, and fair scheduling protections. DCWP 
enforces compliance with the Minimum Pay Rate for delivery workers, and works to 
raise job standards in low-wage industries where employees are primarily women, 
immigrants, and people of color. DCWP investigates all complaints regardless of 
immigration status. 
DCWP also focuses on initiatives that educate, empower, and protect residents and 
neighborhoods with low- and moderate- incomes so they can improve their financial 
health and build assets. This work, which is guided by research that identifies the 
most vulnerable communities, includes providing free one-on-one professional 
financial counseling at a network of City funded Financial Empowerment Centers 
including locations at Department of Small Business Services Workforce1 Centers 
and some NYC Health + Hospitals locations. Additionally, DCWP helps eligible 
New Yorkers file their taxes for free and claim valuable tax credits like the Earned 
Income Tax Credit, and year-round services for self-employed New Yorkers through 
NYC Free Tax Prep.
<<<PAGE 180>>>
Page 168  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Protect and advocate for consumers and ensure businesses comply with applicable laws and 
regulations.
Goal 1a Respond to consumer complaints and mediate with businesses to achieve fair and timely outcomes.
Goal 1b Ensure all businesses comply with NYC’s Consumer Protection Law and related laws.
Goal 1c Promptly negotiate settlements on violations issued to businesses.
SERVICE 2 Assist and educate businesses about their contributions towards a fair marketplace for all.
Goal 2a Assist businesses in meeting their licensing requirements.
Goal 2b Engage with businesses to help them understand their role in promoting a fair marketplace for all.
SERVICE 3 Educate and empower New Yorkers with low and moderate incomes.
Goal 3a Help residents with low and moderate incomes achieve financial stability.
SERVICE 4 Protect and advocate for workers.
Goal 4a Investigate worker complaints in a timely manner to ensure their rights under NYC’s worker protection laws 
are upheld.
Goal 4b Assist freelancers in exercising their rights under the Freelance Isn’t Free Law.
<<<PAGE 181>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AND WORKER PROTECTION  |  Page 169
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Protect and advocate for consumers and ensure businesses comply with applicable laws and
regulations.
Goal 1a Respond to consumer complaints and mediate with businesses to achieve fair and timely outcomes.
When a consumer files a complaint, they must request that 
the complaint be mediated and submit documentation 
substantiating their claim. DCWP must then determine whether 
it has oversight authority over the nature of the complaint, 
and if so, assigns a mediator to the case to try to reach a 
solution between the consumer and business. The number of 
complaints entering mediation increased by nine percent, from 
2,276 in Fiscal 2025 to 2,490 in Fiscal 2026, and the number of 
mediations completed increased by eight percent, from 2,191 
to 2,359. The median number of days to close mediations 
increased by seven days, from 29 days in Fiscal 2025 to 36 
days in Fiscal 2026. Complaints that enter mediation may result 
in no response from the business or consumer, however, time 
spent waiting for the response is included in the complaint’s 
completion time. In Fiscal 2026, complaint results in these 
categories increased sharply, extending median completion 
time. Mediations completed within 28 days fell 15 percentage 
points in Fiscal 2026, below the 50 percent target.
The total amount of consumer restitution increased 65 percent, from $2,563,802 in Fiscal 2025 to $4,227,168 in Fiscal 
2026. This increase was driven primarily by a $1 million restitution fund secured from Extra Space Management, Inc., 
following a DCWP lawsuit alleging the self-storage company lured customers in with low prices before sharply raising 
rates, let units fall into disrepair, and seized and auctioned off tenants’ belongings without due process. It was also driven 
by a $979,610 restitution order against Christian Meneses Employment Agency, following a determination that the agency 
routinely charged illegal advance fees, failed to issue required receipts, and provided customers with defective contracts 
that didn’t inform them of their rights.
The number of complaints referred for inspection increased by seven percent, from 2,954 in Fiscal 2025 to 3,158 in Fiscal 
2026. The median number of days to respond to these inspection referrals increased slightly, from nine days to ten.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Median days to close mediations 31 27 35 29 36 28 28 Up Down
Complaints entering mediation 1,970 1,856 1,930 2,276 2,490 * * Up *
Mediated complaints resolved 1,917 1,817 1,847 2,191 2,359 * * Up *
Mediations completed within 28 days (%) 50% 56% 37% 49% 35% 50% 50% Down Up
– Within 0-50 days (%) 86% 98% 76% 84% 78% 85% 85% Down Up
– Within 0-90 days (%) 99% 100% 99% 99% 99% 100% 100% Neutral Up
Consumer restitution awarded ($) $1,695,560 $1,251,476 $3,301,258 $2,563,802 $4,227,168 * * Up *
Complaints referred for inspection 3,566 3,551 4,323 2,954 3,158 * * Down *
 Median days to respond to inspection referrals 12 10 20 9 10 ò ò Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Consumer Complaint Mediations
1,970
2,359
2,490
1,917
1,856
1,817
1,930
1,847
Mediated complaints resolved
Complaints entering mediation
2,276
2,191
<<<PAGE 182>>>
Page 170  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1b Ensure businesses comply with NYC’s Consumer Protection Law and related laws.
DCWP conducted 51,971 inspections during Fiscal 2026, two percent fewer than Fiscal 2025. Licensed business category 
inspections, which do not include tobacco and electronic cigarette dealer businesses, increased by 281 to just over 10,000 
inspections in Fiscal 2026. Non-licensed business category inspections increased by 34 percent, from 19,061 in Fiscal 2025 
to 25,554 in Fiscal 2026, driven primarily by increased inspections of groceries, supermarkets, tax preparers, and commercial 
scales during the second half of the fiscal year.  
Tobacco Program inspections decreased by 32 percent, from 24,110 to 16,415 following three years of increasing inspections 
performed in response to the proliferation of new smoke shops. Many of these businesses were sealed, evicted, or 
permanently closed in Fiscal 2024 and Fiscal 2025, so fewer tobacco inspections were necessary in Fiscal 2026. The 
compliance rate for restricting the sale of tobacco products to minors remained steady at 95 percent, while compliance 
with tobacco packaging and pricing regulations remained high, at 99 percent, and compliance with regulations regarding 
the sale of flavored tobacco products increased from 82 percent to 84 percent.
Between Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2026, compliance with the requirement for certain businesses to have a DCWP-issued 
license increased from 83 percent to 85 percent. Licensees’ compliance with licensing law decreased from 94 percent to 
90 percent while compliance with consumer protection law decreased from 83 percent to 74 percent. The decrease in the 
Licensing Law compliance rate resulted from increased enforcement of Garages & Parking Lots and Stoop Line Stands, the 
only two industries with a lower compliance rate than Tobacco Retail Dealers. Combined, these two industries saw a 60 
percent increase in the number of Licensing Law violations issued. The decrease in consumer protection law compliance 
was driven by the Agency’s efforts to combat hidden junk fees and improve price transparency, including many additional 
violations issued to businesses for failing to properly disclose credit card fees. The compliance rate for retail gasoline pumps 
remained steady at 99 percent and the compliance rate for fuel trucks increased from 90 percent to 91 percent.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Inspections – Total 37,980 43,280 47,288 52,892 51,971 * * Up Up
Licensed business category inspections 21,337 15,497 6,042 9,721 10,002 * * Down *
Non-licensed business category inspections 4,665 9,711 20,829 19,061 25,554 * * Up *
Tobacco program inspections 11,978 18,072 20,417 24,110 16,415 * * Up Up
Summonses – Total 10,487 16,493 17,057 17,332 18,700 * * Up *
Licensed business category summonses 3,117 3,036 1,218 2,905 3,935 * * Up *
Non-licensed business category summonses 634 1,410 3,823 3,522 5,862 * * Up *
Tobacco program summonses 6,736 12,047 12,016 10,905 8,903 * * Up *
License Law – License requirement compliance rate (%) 85% 75% 79% 83% 85% * * Neutral Up
– Tobacco and Electronic Cigarette Retail Dealer compliance rate (%) 84% 75% 74% 78% 80% * * Neutral Up
– All Other License Categories compliance rate (%) 99% 97% 94% 93% 94% * * Neutral Up
 License Law – Licensee compliance rate (%) 94% 96% 97% 94% 90% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Consumer protection law compliance rate (%) 86% 84% 79% 83% 74% * * Down Up
Weights and measures law compliance rate – Gasoline pumps (%) 99% 100% 100% 100% 100% 98% 98% Neutral Up
Weights and measures law compliance rate – Fuel trucks (%) 85% 88% 87% 90% 91% 72% 72% Neutral Up
 Tobacco Program – Sale to youth compliance rate (%) 90% 86% 91% 95% 95% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Tobacco Program – Out of package sales compliance rate (%) 97% 99% 99% 99% 99% * * Neutral Up
Tobacco Program – Flavored tobacco and e-cigarette compliance 
rate (%) 82% 76% 78% 82% 84% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 183>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AND WORKER PROTECTION  |  Page 171
Goal 1c Promptly negotiate settlements on violations issued to businesses.
DCWP works with businesses to resolve violations and enter into settlement agreements. The total dollar amount of civil 
penalties collected through settlement agreements decreased by 12 percent, from $6,840,938 to $5,987,814. The dollar 
amount of civil penalties collected varies year to year due to the timing of files cases, settlement agreements, and when 
payments are made. The rate at which cases were settled prior to their initial hearing date improved by six percentage 
points to 48 percent during Fiscal 2026. This increase can be attributed to improvements to DCWP’s web-based business 
portal and the ability for businesses to enter into settlement and pleading agreements online.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Civil penalties collected from settlements ($) $6,644,529 $8,045,022 $4,060,381 $6,840,938 $5,987,814 * * Down *
 Cases settled prior to original hearing date 
(%) 48% 42% 47% 42% 48% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Assist and educate businesses about their contributions towards a fair marketplace for all.
Goal 2a Assist businesses in meeting their licensing requirements.
In Fiscal 2026, DCWP received a total of 20,893 applications for new licenses and renewals of existing licenses, a 39 percent 
decrease from the 34,191 received in Fiscal 2025. The number of license applications and renewals received can fluctuate 
from year to year due to the introduction or repeal of license categories, and the mix of one-year and two-year renewal 
cycles. For example, the largest license category, Home Improvement Contractor, expires in February of odd-number years 
which contributes to an overall increase in odd-number years and decrease in even-number years.  
The median number of days to approve license applications and renewals received during Fiscal 2026 remained consistent 
at two days. The percent of applications processed within 10 days dropped from 95 percent to 94 percent, and the percent 
of applications approved within 30 days increased one percentage point to 99 percent. 
The percentage of all applications submitted online increased to 92 percent in Fiscal 2026, up from 81 percent in Fiscal 2025. 
This increase is the result of continued improvements to the online license application portal and a continuing outreach 
effort to direct applicants to apply online and licensees to renew online.
The average wait time for consumers visiting DCWP’s Licensing Center increased from four to six minutes in Fiscal 2026 
while the number of customer service requests processed at the Licensing Center decreased by 34 percent, from 20,695 in 
Fiscal 2025 to 13,615 in Fiscal 2026. This substantial decrease of in-person visits to the Licensing Center is a direct result of 
the decrease in applications and renewals and the continued uptick in online application processing, which contributed to 
the increase in average wait time as a higher proportion of in-person visits were more complex cases requiring additional 
assistance. Additionally, DCWP had several vacancies during the fiscal year which contributed to longer wait times. These 
vacancies have been filled.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Applications received 26,268 37,120 22,885 34,191 20,893 * * Down *
 Median processing time (days) 1 1 1 2 2 4 4 Up Down
Applications approved within 10 days (%) 84% 84% 95% 95% 94% 85% 85% Up Up
Applications approved within 30 days (%) 90% 94% 97% 98% 99% 95% 95% Neutral Up
Applications submitted online (%) 42% 42% 48% 81% 92% * * Up Up
 Average Licensing Center wait time (minutes) 4 3 5 4 6 15 15 Up Down
Customer service requests processed at the DCWP Licensing Center 16,516 20,556 21,822 20,695 13,615 * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 184>>>
Page 172  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2b Engage with businesses to help them understand their role in promoting a fair marketplace for all.
DCWP continues to supplement patrol-based education efforts with intensive outreach to help businesses understand 
their legal responsibilities. At the beginning of Calendar 2026 DCWP’s community outreach staff grew, allowing them 
to conduct a much higher volume of outreach events than in years past. This year’s efforts prioritized presentations over 
tabling for business education events, particularly with respect to Self-Employed Tax Prep, which on average have fewer 
attendees but provide a more substantive engagement. As a result of additional staffing and a change in focus, DCWP 
conducted 283 business outreach and engagement events during Fiscal 2026, a 175 percent increase over Fiscal 2025, and 
reached 19,568 businesses through these efforts, a four percent decrease from the 20,314 businesses reached last year. 
In addition to hosting outreach events, businesses can request a violation-free education inspection to better inform them 
of potential violations. DCWP conducted five percent more business education inspections in Fiscal 2026, increasing from 
3,110 in Fiscal 2025 to 3,279.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Businesses engagement and outreach events 61 63 86 103 283 * * Up *
Businesses participating in engagement and outreach events 5,251 5,497 7,234 20,314 19,568 * * Up Up
Business education inspections 1,787 2,079 1,973 3,110 3,279 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Educate and empower New Yorkers with low and moderate incomes.
Goal 3a Help residents with low and moderate incomes achieve financial stability.
In Fiscal 2026 DCWP provided financial counseling to 11,279 clients, the same as during Fiscal 2025.  This included 7,926 
first-time financial empowerment clients, five percent fewer first-time clients than Fiscal 2025. In Fiscal 2026, 30.0 percent 
of clients achieved a financial goal within their first year of enrollment, up slightly from 29.7 percent. Financial goals include 
establishing a safe bank account, establishing a savings pattern or credit score, increasing savings as a percent of income, and 
reducing debt by at least 10 percent or increasing their credit score by 35 or more points. 
The cumulative amount of debt reduced by financial empowerment clients increased by 10 percent, to $150,368,746, and 
the cumulative amount of increased savings rose by nine percent, to $19,199,803. These gains came despite national trends 
of rising consumer debt and falling savings, reflecting the impact of counselors’ strong client relationships and referrals to the 
legal services contractor to help clients navigate consumer and student debt-related issues. 
There were 100,216 returns filed by the NYC Free Tax Prep program during Fiscal 2026, a nine percent decrease from the 
previous year. This decrease is due in part to a mid-season change made by the federal Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in their 
data reporting policies which reduced the number of reporting partners within the NYC Free Tax Prep Coalition. Participants 
saved an estimated $37,781,432 in filing fees during the 2026 tax season, a one percent decrease from Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Clients served 7,160 8,829 11,622 11,279 11,279 * * Up *
First-time clients 5,017 6,528 9,008 8,330 7,926 * * Up *
 Clients achieving a financial goal within 
their first year of receiving counseling (%) 20.0% 22.0% 23.0% 29.7% 30.0% ñ ñ Up Up
Cumulative financial counseling program 
clients served 77,903 83,354 92,361 100,955 108,653 * * Up Up
Cumulative debt reduced ($) $95,101,598 $105,912,641 $121,688,089 $136,968,576 $150,368,746 * * Up Up
Cumulative savings increase ($) $12,475,648 $14,054,805 $15,998,451 $17,673,479 $19,199,803 * * Up Up
Tax returns filed through the NYC Free Tax 
Preparation Program 78,679 84,471 101,415 110,352 100,216 * * Up Up
Estimated tax preparation fees saved 
through the NYC Free Tax Preparation 
Program ($) $11,801,850 $13,181,050 $32,695,689 $38,181,792 $37,781,432 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 185>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AND WORKER PROTECTION  |  Page 173
SERVICE 4 Protect and advocate for workers.
Goal 4a Investigate worker complaints in a timely manner to ensure their rights under NYC’s worker protection 
laws are upheld.
DCWP enforces New York City’s worker protection laws. Since May 2016, the portfolio of laws DCWP is responsible for 
enforcing and, by extension, the nature and complexity of the cases, has grown substantially. In Fiscal 2026, the number 
of all worker protection complaints received increased by 103 percent, from 1,223 to 2,488. The increase in complaint 
volume was driven by increases in Fair Workweek Law complaints (which govern scheduling and predictability for fast food 
and retail workers) and Delivery Worker Law complaints (which govern pay and working conditions for app-based delivery 
workers). The number of investigations opened in Fiscal 2026 increased by 20 percent, from 396 to 475, a reflection of the 
increased number of complaints received. Even though the number of complaints received increased more substantially, 
the number of complaints will never be equal to the number of investigations because worker complaints against larger 
employers may be attached to a single investigation, and some complaints do not become investigations for a variety of 
reasons (e.g. worker withdraws complaint, facts do not allege a violation of law, etc.). The median days to assess complaints 
and open investigations increased from 84 days to 89 days. The number of investigations closed increased by 16 percent, 
to 461, while the median number of days to close investigations decreased by 13 percent, from 104 days in Fiscal 2025 
to 91 days in Fiscal 2026.
The number of workers entitled to restitution grew exponentially from the amount in Fiscal 2025, by 880 percent, from 
7,531 to 73,817, and the amount of worker restitution assessed in Fiscal 2026 increased by 483 percent, from $8.35 million 
to $48.68 million. The amount of civil penalties collected similarly increased, by 410 percent, to $4.15 million in Fiscal 
2026. These increases from Fiscal 2025 were driven primarily by three large settlements: $38.9 million with Starbucks for 
15,290 workers, $3.3 million with Uber that secured restitution for more than 48,000 delivery workers, and $2.5 million 
with Getir that secured restitution for more than 1,792 workers. Together, these three cases accounted for approximately 
88 percent of the workers and 92 percent of the restitution dollars reflected in this year’s totals.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Complaints received 386 439 1,581 1,223 2,488 * * Up *
Investigations opened 251 279 476 396 475 * * Up *
Median days to assess complaints and 
open investigations 29 32 16 84 89 * * Up Down
Investigations closed 266 270 387 399 461 * * Up *
 Median days to close investigations 143 194 113 104 91 ò ò Down Down
Workers entitled to restitution 7,957 14,669 12,598 7,531 73,817 * * Up *
Worker restitution assessed ($) $3,620,499 $25,368,095 $13,821,536 $8,353,401 $48,676,036 * * Up *
Civil penalties collected ($) $236,759 $1,365,330 $1,459,694 $813,646 $4,151,819 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 186>>>
Page 174  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 4b Assist freelancers in exercising their rights under the Freelance Isn’t Free Law.
The Freelance Isn’t Free Act guarantees freelancers’ rights to written contracts and prompt payment in full. This also 
strengthens their ability to file claims in civil court. DCWP assists freelancers in exercising these rights. In Fiscal 2026, the 
number of complaints received increased by three percent from Fiscal 2025, from 821 to 848. The number of freelance 
cases opened increased by 20 percent, from 711 to 856. The number of freelance cases closed remained relatively stable, 
decreasing from 796 to 788. The amount recovered by complainants decreased by 19 percent, from $365,973 to $297,012. 
It is important to note that data regarding the amount recovered is from self-reporting by freelance workers during follow-
up after their case has closed. Not all freelance workers respond to DCWP’s survey. This fiscal year’s figure is 19 percent 
lower due in part to a delay in collecting and processing these surveys due to a problem with the survey platform that was 
only recently resolved.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Complaints received 332 501 728 821 848 * * Up *
Navigation cases opened 325 480 704 711 856 * * Up *
 Navigation cases closed 370 412 382 796 788 * * Up *
Amount recovered by complainants ($) $604,521 $626,062 $560,439 $365,973 $297,012 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Average wait time to speak with a customer service agent 
(minutes:seconds) 3:58 4:00 5:00 3:52 6:01 17:00 17:00 Up Down
Completed requests for interpretation 3,404 2,335 2,806 3,549 3,015 * * Neutral *
CORE facility rating 100 99 97 NA 100 87 87 NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Response to 311 Service Requests (SRs) FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Percent meeting time to first action within 4 days – Consumer 
complaint for exchange/refund/return NA NA 95% 97% 97% 85% 85% NA *
Percent meeting time to first action within 4 days – Consumer 
complaint for false advertising NA NA 96% 99% 97% 85% 85% NA *
Percent meeting time to first action within 4 days – Consumer 
complaint for non-delivery goods/services NA NA 95% 97% 98% 85% 85% NA *
Percent meeting time to first action within 4 days – Consumer 
complaint for overcharge NA NA 94% 97% 97% 85% 85% NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 187>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AND WORKER PROTECTION  |  Page 175
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $59.4 $67.9 $67.9 $66.0 $83.9 $85.5 $139.5 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $16.9 $21.8 $21.0 $20.7 $20.3 $18.5 $17.2 Up
Personnel 400 413 402 409 430 485 561 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000) $46 $120 $66 $182 $118 $114 $114 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $33.2 $36.7 
        001 - Administration $16.8 $18.3 All
        002 - Licensing and Enforcement $16.4 $18.5 1b, 1c, 2a, 2b, 4a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $32.8 $47.2 
       003 - Other than Personal Services $32.8 $47.2 All
Agency Total $66.0 $83.9 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.  
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Samuel A.A. Levine was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Consumer and Worker Protection in January 
2026. 
• The indicator ‘Customer service requests processed at licensing centers’ in Goal 2a has been renamed to ‘Customer 
service requests processed at the DCWP Licensing Center’ to reflect that DCWP has a single licensing center.
• The previously published Fiscal 2025 figure for the indicator ‘Cases settled prior to their initial hearing date (%)’ in 
Goal 1c was reduced from 58 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 42 percent. This correction was due to cases that were not fully 
resolved being counted as having settled at the time of their initial hearing date. 
• The indicator ‘Percent meeting time to first action within 7 days—DCWP/DOHMH new license application request for 
general street vendor license’ in Agency Customer Service was retired as data is no longer available.  
<<<PAGE 188>>>
Page 176  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information on items referenced in the narrative, go to:
• Licenses: 
nyc.gov/BusinessToolbox
• Worker Rights: 
nyc.gov/workers
• Third-Party Food Delivery Services: 
nyc.gov/DeliveryApps
• NYC Financial Empowerment Centers: 
nyc.gov/TalkMoney
• NYC Free Tax Prep: 
nyc.gov/taxprep
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/dcwp.
<<<PAGE 189>>>
311 CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTER  |  Page 177
NYCOFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION  
311 CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTER  
Joe Morrisroe, Deputy Commissioner
WHAT WE DO
The 311 Customer Service Center 
(referred to as NYC311, or more 
commonly, 311) delivers fast and 
easy access to government services 
and information to all New Yorkers. 
311 can be reached via the call 
center, 311 Online, 311 Mobile 
App, 311 on X, Instagram, and 
Facebook, or by text messaging at 
311-NYC (692).  People connecting 
through 711, teletypewriter (TTY), 
Video Relay Service (VRS), or another 
relay provider can have their relay 
operator call 212-NEW-YORK 
(212-639-9675) to reach NYC311.  
NYC311’s services are available via 
phone in 175 languages, 24 hours 
a day, seven days a week, 365 days 
a year.  
FOCUS ON EQUITY
NYC311 is committed to equitably serving all New Yorkers by providing inclusive, 
reliable, and transparent access to City services and information. As the City’s 
front door to information and services, 311 works to reduce barriers related to 
language, disability, income, neighborhood, connectivity, and device access. By 
giving residents a single place to identify benefits, programs, and services, 311 
supports affordability in a practical way by helping New Yorkers locate resources 
that address essential needs without having to navigate City government on 
their own.
In Fiscal 2026, NYC311 continued to provide multiple pathways to City 
government, including its 24/7 multilingual call center, website, mobile app, 
text, social media, and video relay options. Maintaining both human-assisted 
and digital channels allows residents to choose the method that best fits their 
circumstances and helps ensure that modernization does not create new barriers. 
Through this core service delivery, NYC311 advances equitable access to essential 
services while upholding strong standards for accessibility, privacy, and public 
trust.
<<<PAGE 190>>>
Page 178  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Provide public access to City government.
Goal 1a Increase public access to government services and information.
Goal 1b Improve the efficiency of public access to government services.
SERVICE 2 Provide information to the public.
Goal 2a Deliver requested information to the public.
<<<PAGE 191>>>
311 CUSTOMER SERVICE CENTER  |  Page 179
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Provide public access to City government.
Goal 1a Increase public access to government services and information.
Although total contacts have increased, 311 call volume has declined 
each year since Fiscal 2022, falling nearly nine percent from 18.2 mil -
lion to 16.6 million in Fiscal 2026, as more New Yorkers have shifted 
toward digital channels to reach 311. This trend continued in Fiscal 
2026: 311’s online channels (mobile app contacts, text contacts, and 
site visits) increased six percent, overall, from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 
2026, going from 19.7 million to 20.8 million. Text contacts increased 
21 percent and mobile app contacts increased 13 percent, while online 
site visits increased four percent, from 16.9 million to 17.6 million, 
over the same period. These gains reflect 311’s sustained investment 
in digital access over the past several years, including continued en -
hancements to the mobile app and expanded outreach for text-based 
service, which together have made digital channels an increasingly 
central part of how New Yorkers reach 311.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
311 calls (000) 18,231 17,886 17,458 17,377 16,609 * * Neutral *
311 Spanish language calls (000) 529 1,254 706 1,709 1,672 * * Up *
311 calls in languages other than English or Spanish (000) 168 165 264 243 260 * * Up *
311 mobile app contacts (000) 2,187 2,157 2,165 2,525 2,841 * * Up Up
311-NYC (text) contacts (000) 311 303 308 270 326 * * Neutral *
311 Online site visits (000) 13,472 15,007 18,182 16,890 17,614 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Improve the efficiency of public access to government services.
In Fiscal 2026, NYC311 answered 75 percent of Tier 1, or high volume, calls within 30 seconds, below the target of 80 
percent. The average wait time was 43 seconds, above the target of 30 seconds and greater than the 25 seconds achieved 
in Fiscal 2025. The extended period of severe winter weather generated sustained increases in call volume, 161,000 more 
Tier 1 calls in the first three months of Calendar 2026 compared to the same period in Calendar 2025, which included 
sharp surges during peak periods, contributing to longer customer wait times and lower service levels.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Calls answered within 30 seconds (%) 83% 85% 74% 80% 75% 80% 80% Down Up
 Average wait time (tier 1 calls) (minutes:seconds) 0:29 0:17 0:31 0:25 0:43 0:30 0:30 Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Contacts to 311 — Monthly Average (000)
0.0
660.0
1320.0
1980.0
2640.0
3300.0
FY26FY25FY24FY23FY22
1,519 1,490 1,455 1,448
182
26
180
25
180
26
210
22
1,123 1,251 1,515 1,407
1,384
237
27
1,468
311-NYC (text) contacts (000)
311 Online site visits (000)
311 mobile app contacts (000)
311 calls (000)
<<<PAGE 192>>>
Page 180  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 2 Provide information to the public.
Goal 2a Deliver requested information to the public.
In Fiscal 2026, inquiries from customers decreased 33 percent, from 31.7 million in Fiscal 2025 to 21.4 million. This decline 
largely reflects a one-time increase in automated MyCity-related inquiries in Fiscal 2025, rather than a broader decline in 
customer demand.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed service requests (000) 3,558 3,404 3,600 3,766 4,107 * * Up *
Inquiries from customers (000) 17,406 19,413 27,508 31,672 21,361 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral *
Customer satisfaction index (311 only) 92% 94% 93% 93% 92% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $71.3 $65.3 $61.7 $62.2 $64.2 $66.3 $64.5 Up
Personnel 352 342 376 342 309 394 394 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000) $239 $125 $264 $293 $239 $239 $239 Neutral
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None      The figures shown in the table above are subtotals of the Office of Technology and Innovation totals that appear in the OTI chapter of this report. 
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Joe Morrisroe continues to serve as Deputy Commissioner for the Office of Technology and Innovation and the 311 
Customer Service Center.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information on items referenced in the narrative, go to:
• 311 Online:  
http://www.nyc.gov/31 1
• 311 Facebook:  
http://www.facebook.com/pages/NYC-311/84372567650
• 311 on X:  
https://www.X.com/nyc311
• 311 Mobile App:  
http://www1.nyc.gov/connect/applications.page
<<<PAGE 193>>>
TAXI AND LIMOUSINE  
COMMISSION  Midori Valdivia, Chair and Commissioner
TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION  |  Page 181
WHAT WE DO
The Taxi and Limousine Commission 
(TLC) establishes and enforces 
professional and uniform standards 
for for-hire transportation services, 
ensuring public safety. TLC licenses 
more than 180,000 drivers, who 
collectively complete approximately 
one million trips every day. TLC also 
licenses and regulates the following 
vehicles:
• New York City’s medallion (yellow) 
taxicabs 
• For-hire vehicles (app-based 
services, boro taxis, community-
based liveries, and luxury 
limousines) 
• Commuter vans 
• Paratransit vehicles
FOCUS ON EQUITY
TLC is advancing a transportation system that expands opportunity, promotes 
fairness, and delivers reliable service for all New Yorkers. By investing in accessibility, 
strengthening protections for drivers, and holding transportation companies 
accountable, TLC is building a more equitable system that improves mobility while 
supporting the people who keep the City moving. 
During Fiscal 2026, TLC continued expanding access to safe and reliable 
transportation for passengers with disabilities while investing in the drivers and 
vehicle owners who provide that service. More than 13,000 wheelchair-accessible 
vehicles (WAV) now operate across the yellow taxi, green taxi, and for-hire vehicle 
(FHV) sectors, serving an average of 70,000 accessible trips each month. In June 
2025, more than half of the active yellow taxi fleet became wheelchair accessible 
for the first time. To improve service reliability, TLC established a new performance 
standard requiring high-volume for-hire vehicle companies to complete 90 percent 
of accessible trips within 10 minutes or less to pick up passengers. The Agency 
also expanded financial assistance through the Taxi Improvement Fund (TIF), 
providing up to $30,000 for new wheelchair-accessible taxis (WAVs), resulting 
in the distribution of over $46 million to eligible drivers and vehicle owners in 
Fiscal 2026, and launched the Accessible Taxi Loan Assistance Service (ATLAS) pilot 
program to help qualified medallion owners finance an accessible vehicle purchase. 
TLC also continued the Medallion Relief Program, which has provided more than 
$476 million in debt forgiveness to medallion owners who own or have an interest 
in six or fewer medallions since the program’s inception in March 2021. 
TLC continues to strengthen accountability across the for-hire vehicle industry by 
adopting new rules that protect drivers and promote fair business practices. In 
June 2025, the Commission updated its nation-leading minimum pay standard 
for drivers on high-volume for-hire vehicle platforms by increasing the minimum 
per-mile pay rate to reflect rising operating costs and establishing new protections 
against platform “lockouts” that restrict drivers’ ability to earn income. Based on 
an independent analysis of driver expenses commissioned by TLC, these reforms 
help ensure drivers are fairly compensated while reinforcing accountability 
among app-based transportation companies. Together, these initiatives advance 
a transportation network that values dignity, expands access, and supports a safe, 
accessible, and resilient transportation system for all New Yorkers.
<<<PAGE 194>>>
Page 182  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Ensure the quality and safety of for-hire vehicle transportation services through effective
regulation and administration of rules, standards and licensing requirements.
Goal 1a Increase access to for-hire transportation service.
Goal 1b Ensure that all licensed vehicles meet safety and emissions standards.
Goal 1c Ensure all vehicles operating for-hire follow TLC rules and regulations.
Goal 1d Provide excellent customer service to licensees.
Goal 1e Promote excellent customer service to passengers.
<<<PAGE 195>>>
TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION  |  Page 183
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Ensure the quality and safety of for-hire vehicle transportation services through effective
regulation and administration of rules, standards and licensing requirements.
Goal 1a Increase access to for-hire transportation service.
TLC reached a record number of WAVs across both the taxi and FHV fleets in Fiscal 2026. By the end of the fiscal year, 
14,951 WAVs (across all vehicle types) were available to provide accessible transportation throughout the City. The 20 
percent increase compared to Fiscal 2025 in active accessible medallion taxis and the 15 percent increase in active accessible 
FHVs were driven by TLC rules requiring new taxis and new FHVs to be wheelchair accessible. In contrast, the number of 
accessible boro taxis declined to 12 accessible vehicles because of the continuing long-term reduction of the boro taxi fleet. 
TLC closed the Accessible Dispatch program in February 2026, after eight years of successfully connecting riders with 
accessible transportation. When the program was launched in Calendar 2018, only 2,200 accessible taxis were available, 
and its goal was to connect riders requiring accessible service with those vehicles. Since then, the Agency has significantly 
expanded the accessible fleet. By the end of Fiscal 2026, the City had 6,360 accessible medallion taxis and 8,579 accessible 
for-hire vehicles in service. As the availability of accessible vehicles and transportation options increased, demand for the 
Accessible Dispatch program declined. The service levels during the last eight months of the program declined slightly with 
the percentage of trips completed decreasing to 84.6 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to 88.0 percent in Fiscal 2025, while 
the median wait time increased by one minute during the same reporting period.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Active medallion taxis that are accesible NA NA NA 5,294 6,360 * * NA Up
Active boro taxis that are accessible NA NA NA 23 12 * * NA Up
Active for-hire vehicles that are accessible NA NA NA 7,439 8,579 * * NA Up
Accessible dispatch median wait time citywide (minutes:seconds) 13:52 13:06 12:03 11:25 12:25 * * Down Down
 Accessible dispatch trips fulfilled as a percent of requested trips 
(%) 86.0% 86.4% 86.8% 88.0% 84.6% 84.0% 84.0% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 196>>>
Page 184  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1b Ensure that all licensed vehicles meet safety and emissions standards.
The total number of medallion taxi safety and emissions inspections increased by eight percent, rising from 24,122 inspections 
in Fiscal 2025 to 26,043 inspections in Fiscal 2026. The increase was driven by more medallion vehicles returning to service 
after being placed in storage, growth in the number of WAVs being placed into service, and a wider range of approved 
WAV models and converters providing medallion owners with more options. FHV inspection activity also increased by 10 
percent, from 74,657 in Fiscal 2025 to 82,300 in Fiscal 2026, driven in large part by over 1,000 new WAV applicants, each 
requiring vehicle inspections as part of the application process. In contrast, safety and emissions inspections for boro taxis 
(green taxis) continued a downward trend, declining 14 percent from 2,398 inspections to 2,055 inspections during the 
same reporting period. This reflects the decreasing number of active boro taxis as passenger demand continues to shift 
away from street hails toward app-based and pre-booked rides in the outer boroughs. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Medallion taxi safety and emissions inspections conducted – Total 17,560 19,721 21,662 24,122 26,043 * * Up *
– Passed 13,341 15,294 17,318 18,568 20,060 * * Up *
– Failed 4,219 4,427 4,344 5,554 5,983 * * Up *
 Medallion taxi safety and emissions failure rate – Initial inspec -
tion (%) 29.3% 25.9% 21.0% 31.5% 29.9% 45.0% 45.0% Up Down
– Re-Inspection (%) 5.1% 6.1% 5.9% 7.5% 6.4% * * Up Down
Medallion taxi safety and emissions inspections completed on 
schedule (%) 34.2% 35.1% 39.2% 43.9% 47.3% * * Up Up
For-hire vehicle (FHV) safety and emissions inspections conducted 
at TLC facility 74,432 78,274 80,384 74,657 82,300 * * Neutral *
 For-hire vehicles safety and emissions failure rate – Initial inspec -
tion (%) 25.8% 26.2% 22.7% 26.0% 26.3% 45.0% 45.0% Neutral Down
– Re-Inspection (%) 8.7% 9.0% 8.9% 9.2% 9.1% * * Neutral Down
For-hire vehicles safety and emissions inspections completed on 
schedule (%) 97.8% 98.6% 98.2% 99.1% 98.2% * * Neutral Up
Boro Taxi safety and emissions inspections conducted 4,347 3,558 2,881 2,398 2,055 * * Down *
 Boro taxi safety and emissions failure rate — Initial inspection (%) 34.4% 39.5% 37.2% 41.4% 40.8% 45.0% 45.0% Up Down
– Re-inspection (%) 9.0% 11.0% 11.1% 11.7% 12.4% * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Ensure all vehicles operating for-hire follow TLC rules and regulations.
In Fiscal 2026, TLC’s Enforcement Division prioritized enforcement against unlicensed for-hire activity, including the operation 
of unlicensed commuter vans, to enhance public safety, protect passengers, and support licensed drivers and businesses. 
This focus resulted in a 46 percent increase in patrol summonses issued for unlicensed activity, increasing from 3,833 
summonses in Fiscal 2025 to 5,608 summonses in Fiscal 2026. In Fiscal 2026, TLC’s Enforcement Division increased its 
focus on corporate accountability. Enforcement efforts emphasized the responsibility of vehicle owners, agents, and bases, 
especially high-volume FHV companies, to promote compliance with TLC safety requirements. Given the significant number 
of vehicles affiliated with these high-volume companies, ensuring accountability at the organizational level can have a broad 
impact on vehicle safety and industry-wide compliance. This increased focus contributed to a 12 percent increase in patrol 
summonses issued to owners, agents, and bases, from 6,354 in Fiscal 2025 to 7,087 in Fiscal 2026. Patrol summonses 
for illegal street hails remained steady at 1,033 summonses with a two percent decrease in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 
2025. The increased enforcement on unlicensed activity and corporate accountability required more time and resources 
contributing to a 19 percent decrease in patrol summonses issued directly to drivers, from 21,337 in Fiscal 2025 to 17,264 
in Fiscal 2026. These summonses are typically associated with Vision Zero initiatives and general enforcement activity. 
<<<PAGE 197>>>
TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION  |  Page 185
In Fiscal 2026, service refusal summonses issued decreased to 352, a 40 percent decrease from 585 in Fiscal 2025. This 
decline reflects a strategic reallocation of enforcement personnel to address illegal activity at airports and transportation 
hubs, particularly unlicensed individuals soliciting visitors for trips. As a result, fewer personnel were available to conduct 
targeted sting operations for service refusals.
In Fiscal 2026, administrative summonses issued to owners, agents and bases increased to 18,281, a 27 percent uptick 
compared to 14,355 in Fiscal 2025. These violations require substantial time and documentation, reducing capacity to 
issue other administrative summonses resulting in a 10 percent decrease in those issued to drivers, from 7,020 in Fiscal 
2025 to 6,319 in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Patrol summonses issued to drivers 32,692 29,166 22,839 21,337 17,264 * * Down *
Patrol summonses issued to owners/agents/bases 4,014 5,697 4,930 6,354 7,087 * * Up *
 Patrol summonses issued for illegal street hails for drivers and 
vehicle owners 2,056 1,172 749 1,058 1,033 * * Down *
 Patrol summonses issued for unlicensed activity for drivers and 
vehicle owners 3,698 4,268 2,866 3,833 5,608 * * Up *
Administrative summonses issued to drivers 8,730 5,841 5,118 7,020 6,319 * * Down *
Administrative summonses issued to owners/agents/bases 11,917 11,056 13,922 14,355 18,281 * * Up *
Violations admitted to or upheld at the Taxi and Limousine Tribunal 
at the OATH (%) 95.5% 91.6% 91.6% 92.1% 92.9% * * Neutral Up
Vision Zero summonses issued 22,249 17,575 12,271 14,219 11,345 * * Down *
Service Refusal summonses issued 18 521 347 585 352 * * Up *
Administrative settlements accepted by drivers NA NA 422 1,998 1,920 * * NA *
Administrative settlements accepted by owners/agents/bases NA NA 4,844 10,879 12,396 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1d Provide excellent customer service to licensees.
In Fiscal 2026, TLC maintained its strong commitment to customer service across its public-facing operations at TLC’s 
Long Island City facility. TLC’s Licensing Division’s focus on resolving customer issues at the first point of contact, along 
with an increase in visits, contributed to increased wait times both for phone calls and visits at TLC’s Long Island City 
facility. The increase in average wait time from four minutes and 49 seconds in Fiscal 2025 to 15 minutes and 13 seconds 
in Fiscal 2026 reflects the additional time required to address customer requests. TLC’s Licensing Division aims to reduce 
repeat calls by fully addressing concerns and questions the first time the customer calls, which resulted in improved overall 
customer experience. This increase in average wait time occurred alongside a 13 percent increase of over 117,000 visits 
in Fiscal 2026 and less staffing resources. TLC’s Prosecution Division has issued more summonses to clear the backlog of 
administrative and consumer complaints, which reduced staff availability for conducting settlements during Fiscal 2026, 
and experienced significant staff attrition. 
In Fiscal 2026, total TLC driver licenses issued increased 61 percent to nearly 81,000. The average processing time to 
issue a new TLC driver license increased from 3.3 days in Fiscal 2025 to 3.7 days in Fiscal 2026 due to a 38 percent 
increase in new driver applications in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025. Despite the increase, TLC’s Licensing Division 
was able to keep the processing time down to an average of under four days, which is below the average of the prior 
four fiscal years.
Average inspection times increased across all vehicle types. The average time required to complete a medallion taxi inspection 
increased from 22 minutes in Fiscal 2025 to 24 minutes in Fiscal 2026; FHV inspections increased from 15 minutes in Fiscal 
2025 to 18 minutes in Fiscal 2026; and boro taxi inspections increased from 21 minutes in Fiscal 2025 to 22 minutes in 
Fiscal 2026. These increases were largely driven by the additional time and attention required to inspect an aging vehicle 
fleet, in particular old WAVs since this vehicle type is no longer subject to mandatory retirement requirements. Despite 
these increases, average inspection times remained well below the one-hour target for all vehicle types. 
<<<PAGE 198>>>
Page 186  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
The inspection failure rate for medallion taxis decreased eight percent, from 5,564 in Fiscal 2025 to 5,983 in Fiscal 
2026. The decrease in inspection failure rates is due to the introduction of newer vehicles into the fleet, including new 
WAVs. There are more WAVs on the road due to TLC’s mandate that requires for a 100 percent of medallion vehicles 
placed on the road to be WAVs. Ensuring that vehicles are safe and properly maintained protects passengers while 
also supporting driver dignity by providing drivers with safer, more reliable vehicles in which to work. It also reinforces 
corporate responsibility by recognizing the important role that vehicle owners, bases, and high-volume app-based 
companies play in promoting a safe, accessible, and reliable transportation system.
In Fiscal 2026, there was a near 10 percentage point decrease in emails responded to within 14 days compared to Fiscal 
2025, due largely to a coordinated bot campaign that overwhelmed TLC’s email system with automated messages. The 
campaign was driven by widespread misinformation within the industry about TLC’s proposed rule changes. These bot 
emails were responded to and closed in bulk, which skewed the response rate.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average wait time at Long Island City facility (hours:minutes) 0:33 0:37 0:22 0:23 0:29 0:25 0:25 Down Down
TLC driver licenses issued 47,226 78,845 64,079 50,338 80,946 * * Up *
– New licenses issued 15,641 20,548 21,307 12,621 17,437 * * Neutral *
Average time to issue a new driver license from initial application 
(calendar days) 65.7 47.8 44.2 44.4 44.8 * * Down Down
– Average agency processing time 6.5 5.0 4.6 3.3 3.7 * * Down Down
 Owners approved for the Medallion Relief Program NA 1,838 2,038 2,046 NA ñ ñ NA Up
 Average time to conduct a safety and emissions inspection of a 
medallion taxi (hours:minutes) 0:22 0:23 0:31 0:22 0:24 1:00 1:00 Neutral Down
 Average time to conduct a safety and emissions inspection of a 
for-hire vehicle (hours:minutes) 0:18 0:20 0:23 0:15 0:18 1:00 1:00 Down Down
 Average time to conduct a safety and emissions inspection of a 
boro taxi (hours:minutes) 0:21 0:21 0:27 0:21 0:22 1:00 1:00 Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1e Promote excellent customer service to passengers.
In Fiscal 2026, TLC’s Prosecution Division continues to process a high volume of complaints each month. TLC received 10 
percent more complaints about drivers, from 26,514 in Fiscal 2025 to 29,133 in Fiscal 2026. Among these, there was a 41 
percent decrease in complaints eligible for prosecution, from 18,259 in Fiscal 2025 to 10,760 in Fiscal 2026. TLC closed 
many NYC311 complaints because they lacked sufficient details, complainant contact information was missing, or duplicate 
complaints were already on file. The average number of days to close a TLC driver complaint decreased from 27 average 
days in Fiscal 2025 to 14 days in Fiscal 2026. TLC’s Prosecution Division has identified process improvements that steadily 
brought the average number of days to close a customer complaint down significantly. The process improvements include 
changing the method by which drivers are identified to be positively associated with the complaint, partial automation of 
identifying trip data, and changing the method of identifying repeat complainants.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
TLC driver complaints received 16,629 24,131 28,025 26,514 29,133 * * Up *
– Complaints that were eligible for prosecution 9,290 13,087 15,471 18,259 10,760 * * Up *
 Average days to close a TLC driver complaint 22.4 33.2 43.9 27.1 13.9 50.0 50.0 Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 199>>>
TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION  |  Page 187
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Medallion vehicles 13,587 13,587 13,587 13,587 13,587 * * Neutral *
® For-hire vehicles active and not suspended 95,712 98,267 107,932 104,228 103,731 * * Neutral *
Boro taxis active and not suspended 2,379 2,308 875 719 626 * * Down *
Electric vehicles that are medallion taxis NA NA 39 31 28 * * NA Up
Electric vehicles that are for-hire vehicles NA NA 11,283 12,902 13,544 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 95% 89% 86% 84% 75% 85% 85% Down Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 64% 75% 92% 93% 89% 90% 90% Up Up
Average call wait time (minutes:seconds) 3:37 4:24 9:18 4:49 15:13 * * Up Down
Completed requests for interpretation 12,938 15,641 17,163 14,595 9,728 * * Down *
Visits to Long Island City facility 129,446 169,850 134,792 103,471 117,252 * * Down *
CORE facility rating 100 98 100 95 95 85 85 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Response to 311 Service Requests (SRs) FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Percent meeting time to first action - Lost Property (7 days) 97% 96% 93% 100% 98% 90% 90% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action - Taxi Complaint (14 days) 100% 99% 63% 12% NA 90% 90% NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $64.9 $160.6 $54.5 $53.7 $61.8 $62.0 $69.7 Neutral
Revenues ($000,000) $59.4 $70.1 $68.0 $59.3 $70.2 $63.8 $60.6 Up
Personnel 520 462 454 451 468 580 533 Down
Overtime paid ($000) $559 $886 $1,454 $1,495 $809 $809 $809 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 200>>>
Page 188  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        001 - Personal Services $36.5 $41.0 All
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $17.2 $20.8 All
Agency Total $53.7 $61.8 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.   
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Midori Valdivia was appointed as Chair and Commissioner of the Taxi and Limousine Commission in March 2026.
• Fiscal 2026 data for the indicator ‘Owners approved for the Medallion Relief Program’ in Goal 1d is not available. The 
program is exploring the potential for additional loan restructurings. The indicator has been retained pending that 
determination.
• The indicator ‘Visits to Long Island City facility’ was added to the Agency Customer Service section. This indicator refers 
to all visits for any kind of service at this customer service center, not exclusively licensing. 
• Fiscal 2026 actual performance for the service level agreement indicator ‘Percent meeting time to first action—Taxi 
Complaint (14 days)’ is not available. Efforts are being made to resolve this data disruption. 
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
• Industry Reports: 
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/tlc/about/industry-reports.page
• Taxi Improvement Fund (TIF): 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/tlc/about/taxi-improvement-fund.page
• Driver Education: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/tlc/drivers/driver-education.page
• Medallion Relief Program: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/tlc/about/taxi-medallion-owner-relief-program.page
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/tlc.
<<<PAGE 201>>>
Health and 
Human Services
<<<PAGE 202>>>
Health and  
Human Services
Department of Health 
and Mental Hygiene p 191
Office of Chief  
Medical Examiner p 205
NYC 
Health + Hospitals p 215
Human Resources 
Administration p 225
Administration for 
Children’s Services p 237
Department of  
Homeless Services p 249
Department for  
the Aging
 
p 259
<<<PAGE 203>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND  
MENTAL HYGIENE Dr. Alister F. Martin, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE  |  Page 191
WHAT WE DO
The New York City Department of Health 
and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH), also 
referred to as the Health Department, 
protects and promotes the health and 
well-being of all New Yorkers. The Health 
Department engages with communities 
to develop and implement robust 
public health programming and policy 
recommendations, enforces health 
regulations, responds to public health 
emergencies, and provides direct health 
services. The Health Department is 
addressing affordability through its core 
work: Helping New Yorkers stay covered 
by insurance and enroll in benefits while 
working to eliminate medical debt and 
connect them with applicable social 
services and resources. Lastly, the Health 
Department leads the design and oversight 
of citywide population health strategies—
most notably through HealthyNYC, the 
City’s comprehensive health agenda—by 
implementing policies and programs that 
address the leading drivers of premature 
death and persistent racial health inequities 
that disproportionately affect communities 
of color, especially Black New Yorkers. 
Central to the Health Department’s mission, 
the Agency provides direct services at 
tuberculosis clinics, sexual health clinics, an 
immunization clinic, three Neighborhood 
Health Action Centers, and more than 1,200 
public schools. The Health Department 
issues birth and death certificates, inspects 
restaurants and child care centers, and 
provides services to children and families, 
including the Early Intervention Program, 
which serves infants and toddlers with 
developmental delays, and a home visiting 
program for pregnant people. 
The Health Department’s impact goes 
well beyond what is accomplished by its 
own workforce. The Agency contracts 
with hundreds of community-based 
organizations to deliver mental health, 
developmental disability, and alcohol 
and substance use services. It works with 
health care providers to improve health 
care delivery and to increase the use of 
preventive services, such as immunizations 
and cancer screenings.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
Achieving more equitable, efficient, and effective health outcomes for all New 
Yorkers requires the City to explicitly acknowledge and address health inequities 
driven by historical and contemporary injustices, including structural racism and 
other discriminatory policies and practices that continue to shape health outcomes 
today. As part of its strategic plan, the Health Department seeks to embed equity and 
anti-racism principles into all of its work, internally and externally. Recognizing that 
social determinants of health (non-medical factors that influence health outcomes 
and inequities) include social systems (relationships and power structures within 
communities and institutions), the Health Department has reconceptualized the 
ways in which it interacts with communities and develops intervention strategies. 
The Health Department uses the principles of anti-racism frameworks to promote 
equity in its work. Anti-racism principles also guide the services provided at the 
Health Department’s Neighborhood Health Action Centers—located in North and 
Central Brooklyn, East Harlem, and the South Bronx—with each site demonstrating 
the collaborative place-based approaches proven to improve population health and 
address health inequities at the neighborhood level.
November 2026 will mark three years since the Health Department launched 
HealthyNYC, the City’s comprehensive population health agenda to improve life 
expectancy and create a healthier City for all. HealthyNYC’s overarching goal is 
to increase New Yorkers’ life expectancy to at least 83 years of age by 2030. It 
sets specific goals to mitigate the primary factors contributing to declines in life 
expectancy, including COVID-19, drug overdose, suicide, and chronic diseases such 
as heart disease and screenable cancers. It also addresses racial inequities that 
disproportionately affect Black New Yorkers, particularly inequities in deaths due to 
pregnancy-associated causes and incidents of violence. In Fiscal 2026, the Health 
Department released provisional Calendar 2024 HealthyNYC data, showing that 
life expectancy rose from 82.6 years in Calendar 2023 to 83.2 years in Calendar 
2024. Despite surpassing the 2030 goal early, significant racial inequities in life 
expectancy persist and Black New Yorkers continue to experience the worst health 
outcomes. 
Data for Equity’s (D4E) mission is to strengthen the Agency’s ability to use data 
to expose, understand, and address health inequities and to develop approaches 
to support Agency staff who work with data at all junctures of the data lifecycle. 
D4E is currently working on several efforts aiming to ensure that equitable data 
inform policy and program implementation. These include understanding the scope 
and magnitude of missing or inconsistent race and ethnicity data within datasets 
at the Health Department and identifying strategies to mitigate them, as well as 
two Agency-wide guidance documents for the collection, analysis, and reporting 
of gender identity and race and ethnicity.
<<<PAGE 204>>>
Page 192  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Detect, prevent, and reduce the transmission of infectious diseases.
Goal 1a Reduce new cases of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections.
Goal 1b Prevent the transmission of other infectious diseases.
Goal 1c Prevent the transmission of vaccine-preventable diseases.
SERVICE 2 Prevent chronic disease by promoting access to health resources and a healthy environment.
Goal 2a Reduce financial barriers to health resources and minimize the influence of harmful products.
Goal 2b Improve preventive health care.
SERVICE 3 Promote a safe environment.
Goal 3a Reduce hazards to children in homes and child care programs.
Goal 3b Reduce the threat of foodborne illness.
Goal 3c Reduce animal-related risks to human health.
SERVICE 4 Prevent and address mental illness, developmental delays and disabilities, and substance use. 
Goal 4a Reduce the adverse health consequences of substance use.
Goal 4b Facilitate access to services for New Yorkers with or at risk of developing mental illnesses or developmental 
disabilities.
SERVICE 5 Provide high-quality and timely services to the public.
Goal 5a Provide birth and death certificates to the public quickly and efficiently.
<<<PAGE 205>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE  |  Page 193
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Detect, prevent, and reduce the transmission of infectious diseases.
Goal 1a Reduce new cases of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections.
The Health Department works to ensure New Yorkers have access to the HIV testing, treatment, and prevention services they 
need. This includes distributing free safer sex products and funding hospitals, clinics, and community-based organizations to 
offer HIV testing, Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis (PrEP), emergency Post-Exposure Prophylaxis (PEP), and treatment, as well as essential 
supportive services such as care coordination, food and nutrition services, housing services, and mental health services. While 
new HIV diagnoses increased from Calendar 2023 to Calendar 2024, so did the proportion of people receiving medical care for 
HIV who achieved viral suppression (less than 200 copies per milliliter) on their last measurement, indicating effective treatment 
and minimal risk of transmission. The Health Department expects to release Calendar 2025 HIV data in December 2026. 
In Calendar 2025, there were 1,023 reported cases of infectious syphilis in New York City, a 30 percent decrease from Calendar 
2024. This follows a similar 17 percent decrease observed from Calendar 2023 to Calendar 2024 and aligns with national 
trends. Declines were observed across almost all demographic groups and boroughs, with the largest decrease occurring in 
Staten Island (down 80 percent). However, adults age 60 and older saw an 11 percent increase in cases (up from 55 to 61 
cases), and significant inequities persist by race/ethnicity and neighborhood. The Health Department attributes the overall 
decline to multiple factors, including the increased use of doxy PEP—a prophylactic antibiotic taken to prevent certain bacterial 
sexually transmitted infections, including infectious syphilis. 
Congenital syphilis cases also saw a significant reduction, with 23 cases reported in Calendar 2025, down 38 percent from 37 
cases in Calendar 2024. This marks the largest year-to-year decline since Calendar 2018, though case counts remain higher 
than they were a decade ago. Notably, nearly 90 percent of birthing parents whose infants were born with congenital syphilis 
in Calendar 2025 had late or no prenatal syphilis screening. The Health Department continues to combat transmission through 
social work case management, employing trained disease intervention specialists and epidemiologists, educating health care 
providers about prevention strategies, and ongoing participation in the New York State Congenital Syphilis Elimination Strategic 
Planning Group that supports coordinated response efforts across the City and state. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 New HIV diagnoses (CY) 1,505 1,530 1,646 1,731 NA ò ò NA Down
 Infectious syphilis cases (CY) 2,237 2,309 1,765 1,467 1,023 ò ò Down Down
 Congenital syphilis cases (CY) 24 21 35 37 23 ò ò Up Down
HIV viral suppression (%) (CY) 87% 88% 89% 90% NA 92% 93% NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Prevent the transmission of other infectious diseases.
In Calendar 2025, 743 patients were diagnosed with tuberculosis (TB) in New York City, an 11 percent decrease from the 
832 cases reported in Calendar 2024. This decline is a result of ongoing City investments in prevention, detection, clinical 
services, staffing, and innovative programmatic approaches. TB cases remain elevated compared to before Calendar 2019, 
prior to the COVID-19 pandemic—consistent with trends observed nationally and globally. The Health Department continues 
to provide TB services at no cost to patients, regardless of immigration or insurance status.
The percentage of seniors age 65 and older who reported receiving a flu shot decreased from 70.1 percent in Calendar 
2024 to 65.6 percent in Calendar 2025, below the 70.0 percent target. This decrease is greater than historically expected 
and while the cause of this change is unclear, it may be influenced by general vaccination fatigue and declining vaccine 
confidence potentially linked to the federal government’s attacks on vaccination safety and effectiveness. The Health 
Department is evaluating ways to address this decline in this high-risk population.
<<<PAGE 206>>>
Page 194  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
In Calendar 2025, the Health Department reached a rate of 70.2 percent for people cleared or cured of hepatitis C, 
continuing a steady upward trend toward the 74.0 percent target. Following the Health Department’s methodology 
review, this metric was refined to include people with any diagnosis date and a positive hepatitis C virus ribonucleic acid 
(RNA) laboratory result since 2014—the first year the electronic laboratory system began reporting all negative hepatitis C 
virus RNA test results. This more specific population definition provides a clearer and more comprehensive measure of the 
population eligible for monitoring. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 New tuberculosis cases (CY) 529 535 679 832 743 ò ò Up Down
Seniors, age 65+, who reported receiving a flu shot in the last 12 
months (%) (CY) 68.5% 72.4% 69.2% 70.1% 65.6% 70.0% 70.0% Neutral Up
Hepatitis C cleared or cured (%) (CY) 66.2% 67.4% 68.4% 69.2% 70.2% 74.0% 75.0% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Prevent the transmission of vaccine-preventable diseases.
Pediatric immunization coverage for children ages 24-35 months dropped by four percentage points from Fiscal 2025 to 
60.6 percent in Fiscal 2026. This decrease may be due, in part, to confusion caused by mid-cycle revisions to the Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC’s) childhood immunization schedule, which was changed in January 2026 and 
then restored to the original guidance in March 2026. The Health Department is currently investigating these declines 
to identify high-risk communities and tailor interventions accordingly. Despite lower vaccine uptake for children under 
the age of three years old, immunization compliance for children in public schools remained steady at 97.4 percent in 
Fiscal 2026, slightly below the level seen prior to the COVID-19 pandemic in Fiscal 2019 and target of 99.0 percent.
In contrast, the proportion of 13-year-olds who completed their HPV vaccination series by the age of 13 reached 45.7 
percent in Fiscal 2026, a three percentage-point increase from Fiscal 2025. This progress may be partly due to a spring 
2025 advertising campaign and updated immunization registry systems that were both implemented to promote starting 
the vaccination series at age nine. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Children ages 24-35 months with up-to-date immunizations (%) 61.0% 60.1% 66.1% 64.5% 60.6% 70.0% 70.0% Neutral Up
 Children in public schools who are in compliance with required 
immunizations (%) 97.0% 96.4% 96.5% 97.7% 97.4% 99.0% 99.0% Neutral Up
 HPV vaccine series completion (%) 43.5% 42.8% 42.1% 43.0% 45.7% 53.0% 53.0% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Prevent chronic disease by promoting access to health resources and a healthy environment.
Goal 2a Reduce financial barriers to health resources and minimize the influence of harmful products.
After declining for the past two calendar years, the estimated percentage of uninsured adult New Yorkers increased by 0.6 
percentage points from Calendar 2024 to 10.0 percent in Calendar 2025. The increase may be attributed to several factors. 
First, the reintroduction of annual Medicaid renewal requirements in the summer of 2023, following the end of the COVID-19 
federal public health emergency. Second, a marked increase in premiums for individual and small group market coverage in 
New York State, the full impact of which may have been offset by since-expired enhanced subsidies. The Health Department 
anticipates further growth in the uninsured rate due to policies enacted in the federal Budget Reconciliation Act (H.R.1) of 2025 
that increased administrative requirements to maintain Medicaid coverage and limited immigrant eligibility for marketplace 
premium assistance. Punitive immigration policies such as the public charge rule may further deter individuals from enrolling 
in or renewing Medicaid coverage. In anticipation of these changes, the Health Department and its nonprofit enrollment 
assistance partners are preparing for implementation of new documentation requirements and increased demand for financial 
assistance for health care. 
<<<PAGE 207>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE  |  Page 195
In Fiscal 2026, $2.25 million in Health Bucks were publicly distributed to support nutrition security, the same as in Fiscal 2025. 
The Health Bucks program increases resources for New Yorkers with low incomes to purchase fresh produce at City farmers 
markets. Health Bucks are distributed as Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) incentives, through nonprofit 
partners, and via health programming at the Health Department and the City’s Health + Hospitals system. 
The proportion of adult New Yorkers who reported currently smoking cigarettes increased to 8.6 percent in Calendar 2025, up 
by one percentage point from Calendar 2024. While this concerning reversal of year-over-year declines since Calendar 2017 
may be due to random fluctuations in the survey data, it importantly underscores the need for ongoing policy actions and public 
education campaigns. In contrast, the percentage of adults consuming one or more servings of sugar-sweetened beverages 
per day decreased to 13 percent in Calendar 2025, an encouraging drop following a period of relatively plateaued rates. The 
Health Department continues to address the impact of harmful products through community outreach and engagement, 
clinical engagement, and health care systems changes, as well as policy monitoring and advocacy.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Adult New Yorkers without any type of health insurance (%) (CY) 12.1% 11.2% 11.9% 9.4% 10.0% 10.5% 10.0% Down Down
Health Bucks distributed ($000,000) NA NA $2.27 $2.25 $2.25 $2.20 $2.20 NA *
 Adults who smoke (%) (CY) 9.1% 8.7% 8.2% 7.5% 8.6% ò ò Neutral Down
Adults who consume one or more servings of sugar-sweetened 
beverages per day (%) (CY) 14.9% 14.5% 14.0% 14.3% 13.0% * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Improve preventive health care.
As part of its focus on preventive care efforts, the Health Department prioritizes cancer screenings and equitable cancer 
care. In Calendar 2025, 71.2 percent of adults ages 45–75 were up to date on colorectal cancer screenings, marking the 
fourth consecutive year of increases. The Health Department works to increase colon cancer screenings for all eligible New 
Yorkers, including those who are uninsured, by partnering with a range of stakeholders to encourage timely screenings 
and tracking key cancer statistics in the City. Through the HealthyNYC population health agenda, the Health Department 
set a goal to decrease overall screenable cancer (colon, prostate, female breast, lung, and cervical) deaths in New York 
City by 20 percent by 2030. 
The asthma-related emergency department visit rate among children ages 5–17 decreased by nine percent, from 139.1 
visits per 10,000 children in Calendar 2023 to 126.0 in Calendar 2024, falling below the target of 133.1. This decline 
returns the measure to its long-term downward trend following three consecutive annual increases from its record low 
of 57.1 visits per 10,000 children in Calendar 2020. Reductions in asthma-related emergency department visits reflect a 
combination of improved asthma treatment, reduced exposure to environmental triggers in the home, increased access 
to asthma self-management education, and public health policies addressing housing quality and outdoor air quality. 
Due to the 12-month lag required to certify and ensure the integrity of this data, Calendar 2025 data are expected to be 
published in the Fiscal 2027 Mayor’s Management Report.
The infant mortality rate was 4.3 deaths per 1,000 live births in Calendar 2025 compared to 3.9 in Calendar 2024. Infant 
mortality rates can fluctuate year to year due to random variation and, fortunately, small underlying numbers. Calendar 
2025 data are provisional and subject to change. 
In Calendar 2023, the five-year average citywide pregnancy-associated mortality ratio increased by eight percent to 56.5 
deaths per 100,000 live births during 2019-2023. The five-year average pregnancy-associated mortality ratio among 
Black pregnant New Yorkers also increased by 12 percent, from 127.3 deaths per 100,000 live births during 2018–2022 
to 143.0 during 2019–2023. The increase in Black pregnancy-associated mortality is partially linked to a rise in overdose 
deaths, up from 53 to 69 for this population, most of which occurred between 43 to 365 days after pregnancy. Pregnancy-
associated deaths include deaths from any cause during pregnancy or within one year from the end of pregnancy, while 
pregnancy-related deaths are a subset of this, specifically caused by a pregnancy complication, a chain of events that are 
initiated by pregnancy, or the aggravation of an unrelated condition by pregnancy. The Health Department currently only 
<<<PAGE 208>>>
Page 196  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
reports data through Calendar 2023 due to a 2.75-year data lag time needed for compliance with Health Department 
protocol and CDC guidance on the case identification and review process timeline to accurately evaluate each death. 
Calendar 2024 data are expected to be published in the Fiscal 2027 Mayor’s Management Report.
Black pregnant New Yorkers are at highest risk of preventable pregnancy-associated mortality due to generational and 
current epigenetic trauma (trauma that changes gene expression), lifelong exposure to chronic stress and discrimination, 
and disinvestment in their communities, compounded by structural racism. These factors can contribute to being unfairly 
ignored and dismissed by health care clinicians, being underinsured or uninsured, and being unable to access needed 
and lifesaving health care. Through HealthyNYC, the City established a goal to reduce pregnancy-associated mortality 
among Black non-Hispanic pregnant New Yorkers by 10 percent by 2030. However, current trends are moving away 
from, rather than toward, this target. The Health Department continues to convene the Maternal Mortality Review 
Committee (MMRC)—a multi-disciplinary body established to investigate and analyze pregnancy-associated deaths, to 
identify factors that contribute and cause these deaths, and to recommend ways to prevent them and reduce inequities. 
The City also recommitted to improving pregnancy-related health outcomes for Black New Yorkers by 2034, including 
reducing pregnancy-associated maternal mortality and tracking progress by race and ethnicity.
Maternal health remains a critical public health priority in the City. The Health Department will continue to deliver key 
services to pregnant, birthing, and parenting people by working with the City’s hospitals and clinicians, providing support 
through home visiting and doula services, educating on the benefits of full-scope integrative midwifery care, and working 
with community partners to improve birth equity and promote healthy families.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Adults, ages 45-75, screened for colorectal cancer (%) (CY) 63.3% 66.6% 68.4% 70.3% 71.2% * * Up *
 Asthma-related emergency department visits among children 
ages 5-17 (per 10,000 children) (CY) (preliminary) 79.0 134.8 139.1 126.0 NA 133.1 133.1 NA Down
 Diabetes management among adult New Yorkers (%) (CY) 71.8% 74.0% 75.0% 74.3% NA ñ ñ NA Up
 ® Infant mortality rate (per 1,000 live births) (CY) (provisional) 4.0 4.3 4.2 3.9 4.3 4.1 4.1 Neutral Down
 Pregnancy-associated mortality ratio for Black pregnant New 
Yorkers (per 100,000 live births) (Five-year averages) (CY) 114.2 127.3 143.0 NA NA 97.1 97.1 NA Down
Pregnancy-associated mortality ratio (per 100,000 live births) (Five-
year averages) (CY) 48.6 52.3 56.5 NA NA * * NA Down
 Adult heart failure hospitalizations rate (per 100,000 population) 
(CY) 332.2 340.5 351.7 345.8 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Promote a safe environment.
Goal 3a Reduce hazards to children in homes and child care programs.
The number of children with high blood lead levels continued to decline for the second consecutive year in Calendar 
2025, with a 16 percent decrease for children under the age of 18 and a 14 percent decrease for children under the age 
of six from Calendar 2024 to Calendar 2025. This improvement reflects the Health Department’s focus on removing lead 
hazards from homes and providing follow-up care for affected families. 
In Fiscal 2026, the Health Department conducted 8,180 initial inspections of group child care programs. While this is 
a slight decrease from Fiscal 2025 following a surge in hiring last fiscal year, the Health Department remains on track 
to inspect all active group child care centers. Notably, centers’ compliance with public health standards improved: The 
proportion of child care programs that do not require reinspection increased to a five-year high of 85.7 percent. This 
increase may be attributed to improved technical assistance, promoting the Health Department’s guidance documents, 
and website improvements.
<<<PAGE 209>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE  |  Page 197
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Childhood blood lead levels – number of children younger than 
age 18 with blood lead levels of 5 micrograms per deciliter or 
greater (CY) (preliminary) 3,036 3,243 3,456 3,289 2,776 ò ò Neutral Down
 Childhood blood lead levels – number of children younger than 
age 6 with blood lead levels of 5 micrograms per deciliter or greater 
(CY) (preliminary) 2,557 2,713 2,803 2,600 2,229 ò ò Down Down
 Active group child care center full inspections 6,124 6,553 7,417 8,392 8,180 * * Up *
 Active group child care center initial inspections that do not 
require a compliance inspection (%) 81.7% 78.6% 78.9% 82.2% 85.7% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None  
Goal 3b Reduce the threat of foodborne illness.
The Health Department conducted inspections for 71.0 percent of the City’s restaurants in Fiscal 2026, remaining about 
the same as in Fiscal 2025. The Health Department continues to lag significantly behind the target of 100.0 percent due to 
ongoing staffing constraints. The percentage of restaurants receiving an ‘A’ grade improved slightly in Fiscal 2026, reaching 
89.8 percent. Since Fiscal 2024, this metric has shown gradual improvement. The Health Department is working to hire 
additional health inspectors and employing the use of overtime to ensure high food safety standards are met.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Restaurants inspected (%) 71.6% 83.4% 66.4% 71.6% 71.0% 100.0% 100.0% Neutral Up
 Restaurants scoring an ‘A’ grade (%) 92.7% 90.0% 86.9% 89.2% 89.8% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3c Reduce animal-related risks to human health.
In Fiscal 2026, the Health Department conducted approximately 149,000 initial pest control inspections, up from 148,000 
in Fiscal 2025. The percentage of properties with signs of active rats found during these inspections—the most serious 
rodent violation—decreased from 19.7 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 16.6 percent in Fiscal 2026, reflecting the success of 
the Health Department’s proactive block-by-block indexing and neighborhood outreach to promote best practices in rat 
management citywide. 
In Fiscal 2026, 62,900 dogs were licensed in the City, a 10 percent decline from Fiscal 2025. As of December 2024, retail 
pet stores in the City are no longer permitted to sell dogs as part of efforts to stop commercial breeding and encourage pet 
adoption. While stores can still partner with shelters to host adoption events, this ban has likely caused licensing to decline 
as there may be fewer dogs being purchased. Efforts are ongoing to educate the public on the benefits and requirements 
of licensing their pets.
Notably, the number of animals testing positive for rabies increased from eight in Calendar 2024 to 22 in Calendar 2025. In 
New York City, rabies is primarily transmitted among raccoons, with occasional spillover to other animal species. The Health 
Department maintains a robust rabies surveillance program and works with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) 
and NYC Parks to distribute oral rabies vaccines (ORVs) to raccoons in targeted areas, both proactively and in response to 
clusters of rabid raccoons. The Health Department was unable to conduct ORV activities in Calendar 2024 due to a lack 
of dedicated funding, which may have contributed to the increased transmission among unvaccinated raccoons seen in 
Calendar 2025, particularly in Queens, where raccoon rabies emerged in Calendar 2022 amid an ongoing outbreak on 
Long Island. New dedicated funding beginning in Calendar 2026 is expected to support routine vaccine purchases and 
distribution, helping to prevent ongoing transmission and further spread of the virus.
<<<PAGE 210>>>
Page 198  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Initial pest control inspections (000) 116 179 150 148 149 * * Neutral *
Initial inspections with active rat signs (ARS) (%) 25.4% 22.3% 24.2% 19.7% 16.6% * * Down *
 Compliance inspections found to be rat free (%) 30.1% 28.0% 27.3% 27.8% 27.8% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Dogs licensed (000) 87.5 79.9 75.7 70.1 62.9 105.0 105.0 Down *
Animals testing positive for rabies at the Public Health Laboratory 
(CY) 19 38 12 8 22 * * Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 4 Prevent and address mental illness, developmental delays and disabilities, and substance use.
Goal 4a Reduce the adverse health consequences of substance use.
Following more than a decade of increases, unintentional drug overdose deaths in New York City began to decline in 
Calendar 2023, with the decline continuing in Calendar 2024. Provisional data shows 2,192 unintentional drug overdose 
deaths in Calendar 2024, down 28 percent from Calendar 2023, with fentanyl remaining the most common substance 
involved in fatal overdoses. This decline may be influenced by several factors, including changes in the demographics 
and behaviors of people at risk of overdose, expanded public health interventions, and changes in the prevalence and 
concentration of fentanyl in the unregulated drug supply. While further research is needed to determine the relative 
impact of these factors, the decline follows years of investment in evidence-based overdose prevention strategies such 
as distributing more naloxone, fentanyl test strips, and other health and safety supplies; operating a peer-led nonfatal 
overdose response system and drug-checking services; and supporting overdose prevention centers. The Health Department 
continues to expand these prevention services through a place-based, equity-centered approach outlined in HealthyNYC’s 
drug overdose prevention plan.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Buprenorphine patients (CY) 15,160 15,139 15,202 15,619 15,732 16,919 16,919 Neutral Up
 ® Deaths from unintentional drug overdose (CY) (provisional) 2,696 3,070 3,046 2,192 NA ò ò NA Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 4b Facilitate access to services for New Yorkers with or at risk of developing mental illnesses or developmental 
disabilities.
The Assisted Outpatient Treatment program is responsible for the implementation of Kendra’s Law in New York City. 
Established in Calendar 1999, this law states that people with serious mental illness who are a danger to themselves or 
others can be court-ordered to participate in mental health treatment. Assisted Outpatient Treatment can help people with 
serious mental illness receive treatment services that may allow them to live independently in their community. The number 
of individuals in the Assisted Outpatient Treatment program increased by eight percent to 3,052 in Fiscal 2026, driven by 
increased referrals and heightened program attention. The Health Department also increased the capacity for supportive 
housing for people with or at risk for developing serious mental health and substance use disorders, with 13,500 units 
now available in Fiscal 2026, up from 12,800 in Fiscal 2025 and outperforming the 13,300 target. 
The number of new children receiving services from the Early Intervention (EI) Program—an initiative that supports families 
with young children who are not learning, playing, growing, talking, or walking like other children their age to create plans 
to help their children meet developmental goals—increased by eight percent from approximately 12,600 in Fiscal 2025 to 
13,600 in Fiscal 2026. However, this remains lower than Fiscal 2022 through Fiscal 2024 numbers because of the overall 
decrease in the total population of children that may be eligible for EI services in New York City (children from birth to age 
three years old).
<<<PAGE 211>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE  |  Page 199
In the Health Department’s ongoing effort to connect more individuals in need of mental health services to care, five new 
mobile treatment teams were created in Fiscal 2026. These mobile community-based teams include providers from Assertive 
Community Treatment (ACT), Forensic Assertive Community Treatment (FACT), and Intensive Mobile Treatment (IMT) units. 
These services are suited for those living with a serious mental illness who have high services needs that are not being met 
in traditional settings. The five new teams have enhanced the program’s capacity, enabling it to serve 6,794 individuals 
in Fiscal 2026, eight percent more individuals than in Fiscal 2025. Additionally, services provided by NYC 988, the City’s 
suicide and crisis lifeline, increased by 40 percent from Fiscal 2025 to 466,712 services provided in Fiscal 2026 following 
three mass media promotional campaigns. 
The Health Department’s Co-Response Teams (CRTs), which run in collaboration with the New York City Police Department 
(NYPD), highlight the importance of integrating public health with public safety to ensure appropriate interventions are 
provided to individuals experiencing a mental health crisis. Both Departments experienced staffing shortages and recruitment 
challenges that caused CRTs to operate with a temporarily reduced schedule that limited their capacity to serve individuals. 
Despite this challenge that led the CRTs to miss their target of 625 individuals contacted, the program still saw a 10 percent 
increase in the number of individuals contacted in Fiscal 2026 (580) compared to Fiscal 2025 (529). The Co-Response unit 
is currently onboarding new Health Department coordinators and continuing outreach to providers.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Individuals in the assisted outpatient mental health treatment 
program 2,247 2,442 2,657 2,828 3,052 * * Up *
 Units of supportive housing available to people with or at risk for 
developing serious mental health and substance use disorders (000) 10.6 11.4 12.1 12.8 13.5 13.3 14.9 Up Up
New children receiving services from the Early Intervention Program 
(000) 14.9 15.2 14.5 12.6 13.6 * * Down *
Health-led crisis response and community-based de-escalations NA NA 8,145 9,970 10,163 * * NA *
Individuals who received services from long-term mobile communi -
ty-based treatment providers 4,949 5,296 5,729 6,288 6,794 6,072 6,072 Up *
Individuals contacted by a DOHMH Co-Response Team 750 840 506 529 580 625 600 Down Up
Services provided by NYC 988 NA NA NA 334,000 466,712 371,594 371,594 NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 5 Provide high-quality and timely services to the public.
Goal 5a Provide birth and death certificates to the public quickly and efficiently.
The Health Department maintained efficient processing times for vital records in Fiscal 2026. The average response time 
for birth certificates was three days, meeting the target despite high demand. Death certificate processing was even 
more efficient, with an average response time of 1.6 days, significantly outperforming the three-day target. The Health 
Department continues to promote online requests to maintain these service levels.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average response time for birth certificates by mail/online/in 
person (days) 5.4 2.0 1.6 2.7 3.0 3.0 3.0 Down Down
 Average response time for death certificates by mail/online/in 
person (days) 4.2 1.3 0.9 1.4 1.6 3.0 3.0 Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 212>>>
Page 200  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Workplace injuries reported 86 94 101 94 101 * * Up Down
Environmental Control Board violations received at the Office of 
Administrative Trials and Hearings (OATH) 35,108 45,527 48,298 51,551 42,592 * * Up *
Environmental Control Board violations admitted to or upheld at the 
Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings (OATH) (%) 65.4% 66.9% 73.7% 73.7% 74.6% * * Up *
Human services contracts NA NA NA 151 NA * * NA *
Human services contract registration within 30 days of the contract 
start date (%) NA NA NA 62% NA * * NA Up
Total dollars disbursed for human services contracts ($000,000) NA NA NA $539.50 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 41,755 59,975 87,630 89,508 84,758 * * Up *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 64% 63% 60% 69% 57% 70% 70% Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 90% 85% 87% 88% 87% 80% 80% Neutral Up
Average wait time to speak with a customer service agent (minutes) 1 1 1 0 0 10 10 Down Down
CORE facility rating 100 98 100 96 98 85 85 Neutral Up
Calls answered within 30 seconds (%) 45% 69% 78% 65% 50% 80% 80% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Response to 311 Service Requests (SRs) FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Percent meeting time to first action – Rodent (14 days) 56% 66% 65% 79% 85% 73% 73% Up *
Percent meeting time to first action – Food Establishment (14 days) 93% 96% 77% 98% 92% 90% 90% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action – Food Poisoning (3 days) 99% 99% 99% 100% 99% 90% 90% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action – Indoor Air Quality (14 days) 98% 99% 99% 99% 99% 95% 95% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action – Smoking Complaint (14 days) 79% 91% 75% 100% 100% 75% 75% Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $2,613.2 $2,335.5 $2,344.3 $2,452.2 $2,840.2 $2,907.9 $2,769.6 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $34.0 $31.9 $34.7 $40.0 $36.4 $31.6 $31.6 Up
Personnel 6,090 6,164 6,253 6,282 6,418 7,435 7,443 Down
Overtime paid ($000,000) $22.5 $24.0 $21.0 $18.2 $21.0 $19.2 $10.4 Down
Capital commitments ($000,000) $248.5 $341.6 $115.3 $0.4 $308.5 $262.8 $82.9 Up
Human services contract budget ($000,000) $780.1 $909.4 $1,008.0 $1,076.8 $1,301.8 $1,317.9 $1,251.1 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 213>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE  |  Page 201
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $608.7 $660.9 
        101 - Health Administration $80.3 $80.3 All
        102 - Disease Control $127.7 $144.0 1a, 1b
        103 - Family and Child Health $113.3 $118.6 1b, 2b
        104 - Environmental Health Services $86.2 $91.0 2b, 3a, 3b, 3c
        105 - Early Intervention $15.9 $19.2 4b
        106 - Office of Chief Medical Examiner $83.9 $91.3 Refer to table in OCME chapter
        107 - Center for Health Equity & Community Wellness $33.4 $35.9 2a, 2b
        108 - Mental Hygiene Management Services $49.2 $59.3 4a, 4b
        109 - Center for Population Health Data Science $18.8 $21.3 2a, 2b, 5a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $1,843.5 $2,179.3 
        111 - Health Administration $163.6 $187.8 All
        112 - Disease Control $319.2 $313.9 1a, 1b
        113 - Family and Child Health $133.2 $186.1 1b, 2b
        114 - Environmental Health Services $48.6 $61.2 2b, 3a, 3b, 3c
        115 - Early Intervention $332.4 $363.8 4b
        116 - Office of Chief Medical Examiner $24.1 $32.4 Refer to table in OCME chapter
        117 - Center for Health Equity & Community Wellness $89.3 $94.3 2a, 2b
        118 - Mental Hygiene Management Services $43.5 $52.9 4a, 4b
        119 - Center for Population Health Data Science $6.1 $13.6 2a, 2b, 5a
        120 - Mental Health Services $543.4 $685.1 4b
        121 - Developmental Disability $6.9 $8.8 *
        122 - Alcohol & Drug Use Prevention, Care, Treatment  $133.3 $179.3 4a
Agency Total $2,452.2 $2,840.2 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.   * None
<<<PAGE 214>>>
Page 202  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Alister F. Martin was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene in January 2026.
• The indicator ‘COVID-19 hospitalizations rate (per 100,000 admissions) (CY)’ in Goal 1b was retired as annual COVID-19 
hospitalizations have decreased substantially since Calendar 2021 (largely because of population immunity and changes 
in the characteristics of circulating COVID-19 variants) and access to data that inform COVID-19 hospitalization rates 
has diminished over time. 
• The indicator ‘Adult New Yorkers without health insurance (%) (CY)’ in Goal 2a was renamed ‘Adult New Yorkers 
without any type of health insurance (%) (CY)’ for clarity. 
• The indicator ‘Pregnancy-associated mortality ratio for Black women and birthing people (per 100,000 live births) (Five-
year averages) (CY)’ in Goal 2b was renamed ‘Pregnancy-associated mortality ratio for Black pregnant New Yorkers (per 
100,000 live births) (Five-year averages) (CY).’
• A number of targets were updated as part of this publication:
 − The Fiscal 2026 target for ‘Hepatitis C cleared or cured (%)’ in Goal 1b was updated from 73.0 percent to 74.0 
percent due to the new methodology to calculate this indicator and does not change the estimated performance. 
The Fiscal 2027 target was updated from 74.0 percent to 75.0 percent. 
 − The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Health Bucks distributed ($000,000)’ in Goal 2a was updated from no target to $2.20.
 − The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Units of supportive housing available to people with or at risk for developing serious 
mental health and substance use disorders (000)’ in Goal 4b was updated from 14.0 to 14.9.
 − The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Individuals contacted by a DOHMH Co-Response Team’ in Goal 4b was updated from 
700 to 600.
• A number of previously published figures were updated as part of this publication after a review of historical data:
 − The Calendar 2021 figure for ‘New HIV diagnoses (CY)’ in Goal 1a was updated from 1,608 to 1,505. Calendar 
2022 was updated from 1,591 to 1,530, Calendar 2023 was updated from 1,700 to 1,646, and Calendar 2024 
was updated from 1,791 to 1,731.
 − The Calendar 2021 figure for ‘Infectious syphilis cases (CY)’ in Goal 1a was updated from 2,235 to 2,237. Calendar 
2022 was updated from 2,310 to 2,309, Calendar 2023 was updated from 1,762 to 1,765, and Calendar 2024 
was updated from 1,469 to 1,467. 
 − The Calendar 2021 figure for ‘Hepatitis C cleared or cured (%) (CY)’ in Goal 1b was updated from 67.9 percent to 
66.2 percent. Calendar 2022 was updated from 68.8 percent to 67.4 percent, Calendar 2023 was updated from 
69.0 percent to 68.4 percent, and Calendar 2024 was updated from 71.5 percent to 69.2 percent. This metric was 
refined to include people with any diagnosis date and a positive hepatitis C virus RNA laboratory result since 2014—
the first year the electronic laboratory system began reporting all negative hepatitis C virus RNA test results—to 
more clearly and more comprehensively measure the population eligible for monitoring.
 − The Calendar 2023 figure for ‘Asthma-related emergency department visits among children ages 5–17 (per 10,000 
children) (CY) (preliminary)’ in Goal 2b was updated from 143.7 to 139.1. The Calendar 2024 figure was also 
updated from NA to 126.0. 
 − The Calendar 2023 figure for ‘Pregnancy-associated mortality ratio for Black pregnant New Yorkers (per 100,000 
live births) (Five-year averages) (CY)’ in Goal 2b was updated from NA to 143.0.
<<<PAGE 215>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE  |  Page 203
 − The Calendar 2023 figure for ‘Pregnancy-associated mortality ratio (per 100,000 live births) (Five-year averages) 
(CY)’ was updated from NA to 56.5.
 − The Calendar 2021 figure for ‘Adult heart failure hospitalizations rate (per 100,000 population) (CY)’ in Goal 2b 
was updated from 320.0 to 332.2. Calendar 2022 was updated from 323.9 to 340.5, Calendar 2023 was updated 
from 341.3 to 351.7, and Calendar 2024 was updated from NA to 345.8.
 − The Fiscal 2025 figure for ‘Restaurants inspected (%)’ in Goal 3b was updated from 69.7 percent to 71.6 percent.
 − The Fiscal 2025 figure for ‘Individuals contacted by a DOHMH Co-Response Team’ in Goal 4b was updated from 
528 to 529.
 − The Fiscal 2022 figure for ‘Workplace injuries reported’ in the ‘Agency-wide Management’ section was updated 
from 85 to 86. Fiscal 2023 was updated from 96 to 94, Fiscal 2024 was updated from 94 to 101, and Fiscal 2025 
was updated from 93 to 94.
• Several indicators have NA data for the most current year due to long data lag times. This includes the following 
indicators:
 − The Calendar 2025 figure for ‘New HIV diagnoses (CY)’ in Goal 1a is expected to be updated in the Fiscal 2027 
Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report.
 − The Calendar 2025 figure for ‘HIV viral suppression (%) (CY)’ in Goal 1a is expected to be updated in the Fiscal 2027 
Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report.
 − The Calendar 2025 figure for ‘Asthma-related emergency department visits among children ages 5–17 (per 10,000 
children) (CY) (preliminary)’ in Goal 2b is expected to be updated in the Fiscal 2027 Mayor’s Management Report.
 − The Calendar 2025 figure for ‘Diabetes management among adult New Yorkers (%) (CY)’ in Goal 2b is expected to 
be updated in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report.
 − The Calendar 2025 figures for ‘Pregnancy-associated mortality ratio for Black pregnant New Yorkers (per 100,000 
live births) (Five-year averages) (CY)’ and ‘Pregnancy-associated mortality ratio (per 100,000 live births) (Five-year 
averages) (CY)’ in Goal 2b are expected to be updated in the Fiscal 2028 Mayor’s Management Report. The Calendar 
2024 figures for these indicators are expected to be updated in the Fiscal 2027 Mayor’s Management Report.
 − The Calendar 2025 figure for ‘Adult heart failure hospitalizations rate (per 100,000 population) (CY)’ in Goal 2b is 
expected to be updated in the Fiscal 2027 Mayor’s Management Report.
 − The Calendar 2025 figure for ‘Deaths from unintentional drug overdose (CY) (provisional)’ is expected to be updated 
in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report.
<<<PAGE 216>>>
Page 204  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• HealthyNYC: New York City’s Campaign for Healthier, Longer Lives: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/doh/about/about-doh/healthynyc.page 
• Care Community, Action: A Mental Health Plan for NYC:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/doh/care-community-action-mental-health-plan
• Provisional Birth and Death Data:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/doh/data/data-sets/vital-statistics-data.page
• Childhood Vaccination Data Explorer: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/doh/data/data-sets/childhood-vaccination-data.page
• The Mayor’s Office of Contract Services’ Citywide Indicators Report: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/mocs/resources/citywide-indicator-reports.page
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information about the Health Department, please visit: https://www.nyc.gov/health.
<<<PAGE 217>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE 
OFFICE OF CHIEF MEDICAL EXAMINER  
Dr. Jason Graham, Chief Medical Examiner
OFFICE OF CHIEF MEDICAL EXAMINER  |  Page 205
WHAT WE DO
The Office of Chief Medical 
Examiner (OCME) serves public 
health and the justice system 
through forensic science. OCME’s 
impartial investigations of deaths 
and thorough analysis of evidence 
offer answers to families and 
communities during times of 
profound need. OCME is responsible 
for investigating deaths that result 
from criminal violence, accident, 
or suicide; that occur suddenly and 
when in apparent good health; 
when unattended by a physician; in 
a correctional facility or in custody 
of any criminal justice entity; in any 
suspicious or unusual manner; or 
that are a threat to public health. 
These types of cases are referred to 
as being under “Medical Examiner 
jurisdiction.” The Office also 
reviews all applications for permits 
to cremate the body of a person 
who dies in New York City. The 
Office provides additional forensic 
services to support investigations 
through its Forensic Biology, Forensic 
Toxicology, Histology, Anthropology, 
and Molecular Genetics laboratories. 
OCME also manages all functions 
of the City mortuary, including 
the retrieval and processing of 
unclaimed decedents, and facilitates 
final disposition. Finally, OCME 
maintains a specialized mass fatality 
management team ready to support 
the City in responding to mass 
fatalities and other disasters.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
OCME operates Family Services Centers in all five boroughs so that all communities 
have equal access to services, regardless of economic ability. At these centers, 
staff interact with family members, medical practitioners, and other stakeholders 
to receive and verify information that will assist in determining the identity of 
deceased persons and aid in final disposition. Family services are also offered 
remotely for the convenience and comfort of family members. For families 
who may need or choose interment of their loved ones in the City cemetery, 
OCME provides an opportunity for a final viewing before burial upon request. In 
addition, OCME serves as the City’s impartial pathologist for families by performing 
independent death investigations and autopsies, free from influence by legal or 
medical advocates or law enforcement. OCME also offers language interpretation 
and translation services, including for informational materials, to ensure all New 
Yorkers receive the support they need.
Beyond the traditional role of a medical examiner, OCME contributes to improving 
health equity by addressing longstanding disparities in access to care, information 
and support for communities that have historically been underserved, including 
individuals and families affected by the overdose crisis and those at risk of life-
threatening genetic conditions who often face financial and other barriers to care. 
The OCME Drug Intelligence & Intervention Group (DIIG) is a first-of-its-kind model 
built to address the unmet needs of families and social networks of individuals 
who died from a drug overdose by providing a wide-range of services and referrals 
to potentially lifesaving interventions, including grief counseling, substance use 
services, housing assistance services, and health care. OCME’s Genetic Intervention 
Family Testing Services (GIFTS) program also represents a significant advancement 
in the Agency’s public health mission. The program uses postmortem molecular 
findings to offer in-house genetic testing and counseling at no cost to surviving 
biological family members who may also be at risk for potentially fatal inherited 
conditions, helping families who might otherwise face financial, geographic, or 
language barriers access actionable information to help prevent future sudden 
deaths.
OCME develops and maintains a workplace culture in which employment and 
advancement decisions are made equitably and employees are treated fairly, 
regardless of race/ethnicity, age, gender, religion/creed, national origin, disability, 
or sexual orientation. This is accomplished through Agency-wide training and 
continual engagement with managers to ensure familiarity with the City’s 
Equal Employment Opportunity, diversity and inclusion policies, and through 
incorporating these policies into recruitment, selection, promotion, as well as 
workplace activities so that all employees feel welcome and inspired to succeed.
<<<PAGE 218>>>
Page 206  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Perform the processes necessary to certify deaths falling within the Agency’s jurisdiction.
Goal 1a Respond promptly to scenes of reportable fatalities and conduct related investigations.
Goal 1b Perform autopsies and examinations necessary to determine cause and manner of death.
Goal 1c Provide diligent investigation for all cremation requests.
Goal 1d Certify death certificates in a timely manner.
SERVICE 2 Provide mortuary services to the City.
Goal 2a Recover and transport unclaimed and Medical Examiner decedents to City mortuary facilities in a timely 
manner.
SERVICE 3 Respond to disasters and emergencies when fatalities are involved.
Goal 3a Provide rapid response and safe fatality management services to the City.
Goal 3b Identify victims of disasters and return their remains to families in a timely manner.
SERVICE 4 Provide services to the City for forensic purposes.
Goal 4a Provide timely and accurate laboratory services for criminal justice purposes.
SERVICE 5 Provide preventative and supportive fatality-related services to New Yorkers.
Goal 5a Conduct outreach efforts to families and close contacts of victims of overdose deaths.
<<<PAGE 219>>>
OFFICE OF CHIEF MEDICAL EXAMINER  |  Page 207
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Perform the processes necessary to certify deaths falling within the Agency’s jurisdiction.
Goal 1a Respond promptly to scenes of reportable fatalities and conduct related investigations.
OCME’s Medicolegal Investigators (MLIs) respond to reported deaths that fall within the jurisdiction of the Medical Examiner 
(ME), serving as the Agency’s primary death scene investigators. In Fiscal 2026, the median time for OCME’s MLIs to 
respond to public death scenes, which includes deaths reported at private residences or anywhere within public view that 
are not in a health care facility, was two hours, an improvement of 37 minutes from Fiscal 2025. This reflects OCME’s 
continued commitment to conducting timely, high-quality death investigations while working in close coordination with 
law enforcement to preserve investigative integrity and minimize disruption to criminal investigations. A key driver of this 
improvement was the onboarding of additional MLIs, which expanded OCME’s investigative workforce, reduced individual 
caseloads, and enabled faster case assignments and more efficient scene responses.
The number of cases reported to OCME in Fiscal 2026 decreased to 38,869 compared to 39,066 in Fiscal 2025. Of these 
cases, the number that fall under OCME’s jurisdiction also decreased slightly, with certifications at an OCME facility down 
from 8,111 deaths in Fiscal 2025 to 7,994 deaths in Fiscal 2026, and certifications at the death scene or in a health care 
facility up slightly from 3,523 to 3,584 cases. Additionally, OCME declined jurisdiction for 4,071 deaths, 22 percent more 
cases than in Fiscal 2025. This number can fluctuate due to variations in the types of cases reported to OCME each year. 
OCME declines jurisdiction only for deaths that are reported to OCME but do not fall within the criteria for OCME to accept 
jurisdiction following investigation. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Median time for scene arrivals by medicolegal investigators to non-
health care facilities (hours:minutes) 1:36 1:37 2:13 2:37 2:00 * * Up Down
Deaths reported 40,384 39,308 39,298 39,066 38,869 * * Neutral *
 Cases where Medical Examiner takes jurisdiction and certifies 
death at an OCME facility 8,211 8,879 9,004 8,111 7,994 * * Neutral *
 Cases where Medical Examiner investigates, takes jurisdiction 
and certifies death at scene or a health care facility NA 3,383 3,298 3,523 3,584 * * NA *
Cases where Medical Examiner declines jurisdiction 3,096 3,163 3,322 3,325 4,071 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Perform autopsies and examinations necessary to determine cause and manner of death.
To certify the cause and manner of death, OCME may use an autopsy and/or an external examination. In Fiscal 2026, the 
number of autopsies performed decreased by 24 percent to 2,992, while the number of external examinations increased 
by 22 percent to 4,978 compared to Fiscal 2025. These changes reflect the continued implementation of data-informed 
adjustments, originally introduced in Fiscal 2025, to OCME’s criteria for determining when an autopsy is necessary. As part 
of this approach, more drug overdose deaths were certified through external examinations supported by Post-Mortem 
Computed Tomography (PMCT) imaging and toxicology testing, rather than requiring a full autopsy. This strategy was 
adopted to better manage workloads while maintaining the accuracy and integrity of death investigations during a 
nationwide shortage of forensic pathologists (MEs). In addition, this approach expands OCME’s ability to honor religious 
objections to autopsy, when appropriate, while continuing to meet its statutory and investigative responsibilities.
The median time to complete autopsy reports increased by 12 percent from Fiscal 2025 to 103 days in Fiscal 2026. This 
increase was primarily driven by ongoing staffing challenges, including the nationwide shortage of forensic pathologists, 
vacancies within OCME, and the departure of several MEs due to retirements and other career opportunities.
To address these challenges, OCME has implemented several initiatives to support ME staff and improve case turnaround 
times. Since launching locum tenens forensic pathology services to bolster ME staff in March 2025, the Agency has 
continued to expand and refine the program. Locum tenens are health providers who work in a job temporarily to fill staffing 
shortages. During its initial implementation, the program faced operational challenges, including vendor payment issues that 
limited locum tenens forensic pathologist participation. The Agency has since addressed these challenges by streamlining 
administrative processes, revising contractual arrangements and transitioning to a new staffing service vendor. OCME 
<<<PAGE 220>>>
Page 208  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
has been able to continually recruit and onboard additional locum tenens forensic 
pathologists, increasing their share of autopsy cases overall. To date, the program 
has recruited 12 locum tenens MEs, all of whom have been either fully onboarded 
(10) or are in the hiring pipeline (two). The locum tenens staff now also complete 
cases requiring reassignment from MEs no longer with the Agency, helping complete 
outstanding autopsy reports and reducing the workload on current physician staff.
Additionally, OCME has expanded the use of PMCT to help optimize ME resources 
while maintaining quality and accuracy in death certification. The Agency has also 
introduced digital histology capabilities, providing MEs with access to high-resolution 
digitally scanned images of autopsy tissues. This advanced technology allows 
microscopic tissue examinations to be performed at the desktop computer rather 
than using the conventional light microscope which significantly improves efficiency 
while maintaining quality and accuracy, adding to the MEs’ diagnostic toolkit.
Together, these efforts are expected to further alleviate workload demands on 
full-time ME staff and contribute to improved turnaround times, including the 
completion of autopsy reports. As these initiatives continue to mature, OCME 
anticipates continued improvement in case management, operational efficiency and 
overall case completion timelines. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Median time to complete autopsy reports (days) 140 110 118 92 103 90 90 Down Down
Autopsies performed 6,085 6,544 6,170 3,928 2,992 * * Down *
External examinations performed 2,124 2,335 2,769 4,082 4,978 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Provide diligent investigation for all cremation requests.
OCME reviews all applications for a permit to cremate a body from funeral homes in New York City. If it is found that a 
cause of death is sufficiently unclear or involves an injury that falls within ME jurisdiction, the application will be rejected 
and OCME will investigate accordingly. Once the investigation is complete, family members will have the option to have 
the remains of their loved ones cremated. In Fiscal 2026, OCME received and investigated 19,625 cremation requests, a 
two percent increase from the 19,193 requests in Fiscal 2025. OCME rejected 238 cremation requests after investigation, 
marking a slight increase from the 214 cases rejected in Fiscal 2025. This number often fluctuates due to variations in 
questionable cases each year.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cremation requests received and investigated as requirement of 
processing 19,592 18,904 18,670 19,193 19,625 * * Neutral *
 Cremation requests rejected after investigation and turned over 
to Medical Examiner jurisdiction 175 170 201 214 238 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Autopsy Report and Toxicology Results Completion 
(median days)
36
111
103
41
92
140
73
110
77
118
Toxicology Cases Autopsy Reports 
<<<PAGE 221>>>
OFFICE OF CHIEF MEDICAL EXAMINER  |  Page 209
Goal 1d Certify death certificates in a timely manner.
In Fiscal 2026, the median time for OCME to certify death certificates following the initial receipt of decedents’ remains at 
OCME facilities was 14 hours and 53 minutes, a slight improvement from 15 hours and seven minutes in Fiscal 2025. This 
performance remains well below OCME’s 72-hour target and is largely due to OCME’s efforts to strengthen the support 
provided to MEs by filling vacancies within the Forensic Pathology Coordinator (FPC) team, which improved the timely 
retrieval of medical records and other critical case information needed to complete death certificates. In addition, the newly 
established Medical Examiner Support Unit (MESU) streamlined the death certification process by providing additional 
administrative support needed to eliminate steps for MEs within the internal electronic case management system as well as 
within the City’s death registration system. These operational improvements enhanced workflow efficiency and supported 
the timely completion and certification of death certificates.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Median time to certify death certificates after initial receipt of 
decedents’ remains (hours:minutes) 15:01 15:06 15:31 15:07 14:53 72:00 72:00 Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Provide mortuary services to the City.
Goal 2a Recover and transport unclaimed and Medical Examiner decedents to City mortuary facilities in a timely 
manner.
In addition to certifying and investigating deaths that fall under ME jurisdiction, OCME provides mortuary services for 
the City, including the retrieval and processing of decedents. The number of remains transported and stored by OCME 
decreased slightly from Fiscal 2025 to 12,753 total decedents in Fiscal 2026. This number has not returned to pre-
COVID-19 pandemic levels when the numbers were consistently around 11,000 decedents. In Fiscal 2026, the median 
time from OCME’s receipt of decedents’ remains to when those remains were processed and designated as “Ready to 
Release” to mortuary services was nine hours and 48 minutes, comparable to Fiscal 2025. 
The median time to release a decedent’s remains to a funeral director measures the time a funeral director waits on 
site at OCME for removal of a decedent. This release time increased by four minutes to 46 minutes in Fiscal 2026 due 
to the onboarding and training of new staff in both the Forensic Quality Control unit and the Mortuary Unit, which 
temporarily affected processing times.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Decedents’ remains transported and stored by OCME 13,931 14,067 14,112 12,893 12,753 * * Neutral *
 Median time from OCME receipt of decedents’ remains to 
“Ready to Release” status (hours:minutes) 7:52 9:45 9:59 9:28 9:48 * * Up *
Median time to release a decedent remains to a funeral director 
(minutes) 37 39 41 44 46 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 222>>>
Page 210  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 3 Respond to disasters and emergencies when fatalities are involved.
Goal 3a Provide rapid response and safe fatality management services to the City.
Under the Citywide Incident Management System, OCME’s core competency is to manage mass fatality incidents. As defined 
in the City’s All Hazards Mass Fatality Response Plan, a mass fatality incident includes: any event having the potential to yield 
10 or more fatalities; any situation in which there are remains contaminated by chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, 
or explosive agents or materials; any incident or other special circumstance requiring a multi-agency response to support 
mass fatality operations, or any incident involving a protracted or complex remains recovery operation. Fortunately, Fiscal 
2026 marked the fourth consecutive fiscal year with zero mass fatality incidents.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Fatalities handled by OCME following a mass fatality event 30 0 0 0 0 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3b Identify victims of disasters and return their remains to families in a timely manner.
OCME continues to identify remains of the victims of the 9/11 World Trade Center attacks as breakthroughs in science 
allow. Due to ongoing efforts, OCME identified six more remains of the 9/11 World Trade Center attacks in Fiscal 2026. 
All six remains matched to previously identified individuals.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Remains identified following the September 11, 2001 attacks 
(cumulative) 14,771 14,867 14,914 14,933 14,939 ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 4 Provide services to the City for forensic purposes.
Goal 4a Provide timely and accurate laboratory services for criminal justice purposes.
The Forensic Biology Laboratory (DNA Laboratory), which conducts all DNA casework for the Agency, experienced a notable 
increase in turnaround times in Fiscal 2026. The median turnaround time across all DNA case types remained at 108 days 
in Fiscal 2026, consistent with Fiscal 2025 and above the 90-day target. The median time to complete DNA homicide cases 
increased 71 percent from 79 days in Fiscal 2025 to 135 days in Fiscal 2026. Similarly, the turnaround time for DNA sexual 
assault cases rose 108 percent from 61 days to 127 days, the highest on record. Turnaround times for homicide and sexual 
assault cases can vary based on the complexity as well as the volume and timing of materials submitted for testing. The 
DNA Laboratory will always rapidly expedite testing in any case of an urgent public safety concern. These increases occurred 
as the DNA Laboratory continues to navigate through two major operational events that posed unique challenges to its 
performance: (1) an ongoing quality investigation into case-to-case contamination initially identified in August 2024, and 
(2) the implementation of a new Laboratory Information Management System (LIMS) in July 2025. 
Following the Fiscal 2025 contamination event, the DNA Laboratory established a Root Cause Analysis Committee, which 
completed a report that recommended multiple quality measures to address contamination issues. These measures were 
adopted by the DNA Laboratory in Fiscal 2025 and required the strategic diversion of staff from active casework to expanded 
quality assurance activities, validation work, documentation, and case re-evaluation. This shift, though necessary for 
strengthening the DNA Laboratory’s quality systems and reducing future risk, resulted in increased case turnaround times. 
The DNA Laboratory remains confident that the corrective actions implemented in August 2024 are functioning as intended. 
No instances of contamination have been identified in any cases processed since the event, as confirmed through ongoing 
quality control (QC) monitoring. QC evaluations will continue to be applied routinely and to specific cases upon request 
by law enforcement and the judicial system. The LIMS transition similarly required diversion of staff resources for training 
and workflow adjustments, temporarily reducing productivity across all case types as personnel continue to acclimate to 
<<<PAGE 223>>>
OFFICE OF CHIEF MEDICAL EXAMINER  |  Page 211
the new system. OCME is actively evaluating ways to streamline DNA Laboratory workflows and increase efficiency while 
maintaining best quality practices, including by adding staff in affected stages in case processing to alleviate bottlenecks, 
which is expected to reduce turnaround times once fully established. Despite these challenges, the DNA Laboratory remains 
committed to producing the highest-quality work for its partners in the City’s criminal justice system. Integrity in the DNA 
Laboratory’s work product is paramount, and the ongoing review will continue in a manner that ensures confidence in all 
reported results. 
In contrast to challenges seen in other areas of the DNA Laboratory, the median time to complete DNA gun crime cases 
improved by 19 percent, decreasing from 106 days in Fiscal 2025 to 86 days in Fiscal 2026, successfully achieving the 90-
day target. This improvement is due in part to the DNA Laboratory prioritizing testing firearm-related evidence needed for 
active criminal proceedings and focusing resources on cases identified by the district attorneys’ offices and New York City 
Police Department as priorities.
DNA property crime case turnaround times also improved by 24 percent, decreasing from 318 days in Fiscal 2025 to 243 
days in Fiscal 2026. DNA property crimes have no target for turnaround time as they are governed by a timeline appropriate 
for the judicial system. In Fiscal 2026, 100 percent of DNA property crime samples submitted to the Agency were processed 
and ready when needed for criminal justice proceedings.
The Forensic Toxicology Laboratory, which is responsible for all types of toxicology case testing, achieved faster turnaround 
times across all case types over the last fiscal year, with all times remaining well below the 90-day targets. From Fiscal 2025 
to Fiscal 2026, the median time to complete toxicology cases dropped from 41 days to 36 days, median time to complete 
toxicology Driving Under the Influence (DUI) cases fell from 43 days to 33 days, and median time to complete toxicology 
sexual assault cases decreased from 60 days to 57 days. This is a direct result of continued improvements in testing methods 
and staff training in addition to the hiring of new staff. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Median time to complete analysis of a DNA case (days) 71.0 54.0 42.0 108.0 108.0 90.0 90.0 Up Down
 Median time to complete DNA homicide cases from evidence 
submission to report (days) 69.0 69.0 47.0 79.0 135.0 90.0 90.0 Up Down
 Median time to complete DNA sexual assault cases from evi -
dence submission to report (days) 50.0 51.0 40.0 61.0 127.0 90.0 90.0 Up Down
Median time to complete DNA gun crime cases from evidence 
submission to report (days) 65.0 24.0 28.0 106.0 86.0 * * Up Down
DNA gun crime samples tested 8,679 8,821 8,717 7,861 7,801 * * Down *
Median time to complete DNA property crime cases from evidence 
submission to report (days) 216.0 176.0 466.0 318.0 243.0 * * Up Down
 DNA property crime cases that are completed on-time for trial 
(%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral Up
DNA matches with profiles in database 4,760 4,781 6,111 5,737 5,047 * * Up *
 Median time to complete toxicology cases (days) 111.0 73.0 77.0 41.0 36.0 90.0 90.0 Down Down
Median time to complete toxicology DUI cases (days) 56.0 49.0 77.0 43.0 33.0 90.0 90.0 Down Down
Median time to complete toxicology sexual assault cases (days) 116.0 94.0 153.0 60.0 57.0 90.0 90.0 Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 224>>>
Page 212  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 5 Provide preventative and supportive fatality-related services to New Yorkers.
Goal 5a Conduct outreach efforts to families and close contacts of victims of overdose deaths.
In addition to the death certification, mortuary, disaster management and forensic services OCME provides for the City, its 
Drug Intelligence & Intervention Group (DIIG) offers critical response services to fight the fentanyl-driven opioid crisis. In 
Fiscal 2026, DIIG’s Family Support Team contacted 1,361 clients, 27 percent fewer than in Fiscal 2025, and provided services 
to 1,188 clients, 17 percent fewer than last fiscal year. There are a few factors that caused these decreases. Positively, there 
were less overdose deaths observed in Calendar 2024, a trend that appears to have continued into Calendar 2025, though 
official overdose numbers for Calendar 2025 have yet to be released (as reported by the NYC Department of Health and 
Mental Hygiene). Additionally, DIIG operated with 50 percent less staff for the majority of Fiscal 2026, which limited the 
team’s service capacity. As of July 2026, DIIG’s staffing vacancies have been filled, which is expected to have a positive 
impact on the number of individuals served in Fiscal 2027. Despite staffing and service challenges, 87 percent of clients 
reached accepted and were provided with support services in Fiscal 2026, up from 77 percent in Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Drug Intelligence and Intervention Group clients reached NA NA 1,364 1,874 1,361 ñ ñ NA Up
 Drug Intelligence and Intervention Group clients provided 
services NA NA 995 1,435 1,188 ñ ñ NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 3,837 3,885 4,181 3,650 4,132 * * Neutral *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $108.0 $99.5 $106.5 $108.1 $123.7 $127.9 $125.2 Neutral
Revenues ($000) $84.0 $38.3 $0.4 $0.8 $0.5 $50.0 $50.0 Down
Personnel 700 716 737 731 773 906 813 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $8.7 $9.8 $9.8 $10.1 $7.1 $7.1 $6.5 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 225>>>
OFFICE OF CHIEF MEDICAL EXAMINER  |  Page 213
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        106 - Office of Chief Medical Examiner (Personal Services) $83.9 $91.3 All
        116 - Office of Chief Medical Examiner (Other Than Personal 
Services) $24.1 $32.4 All
Agency Total1 $108.1 $123.7
1OCME is contained within the Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and appropriations are made through that agency.  2Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR)  
for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025. Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of chapter. 
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Dr. Jason Graham continues to serve as Commissioner of the Office of Chief Medical Examiner.
• The indicator ‘Median time for scene arrivals by medicolegal investigators (hours:minutes)’ in Goal 1a has been renamed 
to ‘Median time for scene arrivals by medicolegal investigators to non-health care facilities (hours:minutes)’ to more 
clearly define what is being measured. 
• The Fiscal 2022 figure for ‘Completed requests for interpretation’ in the ‘Agency Customer Service’ section was updated 
from 1,303 to 3,837. The Fiscal 2023 was updated from 1,375 to 3,837, Fiscal 2024 was updated from 1,326 to 4,181, 
and Fiscal 2025 was updated from 1,217 to 3,650 after a review of historical data.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/ocme.
<<<PAGE 226>>>
Page 214  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 227>>>
NYC HEALTH + HOSPITALS  
Dr. Mitchell Katz, President and CEO
NYC HEALTH + HOSPITALS  |  Page 215
WHAT WE DO
NYC Health + Hospitals (the System) 
is the largest municipal health care 
system in the nation, serving more 
than one million New Yorkers each 
year—approximately 70 percent 
of whom are adults on Medicaid 
or are uninsured—across over 45 
patient care locations in the City’s 
five boroughs. The System provides 
comprehensive health care services 
including preventive and primary 
care, behavioral health care, trauma 
care, high-risk neonatal and obstetric 
care, and burn care. The System’s 11 
acute care hospital sites also serve as 
major teaching hospitals. In addition, 
other System services include: 
MetroPlusHealth, a managed health 
care insurance provider plan; an 
Accountable Care Organization 
that provides Medicare beneficiaries 
with care coordination and chronic 
disease management; a Certified 
Home Health Agency that provides 
community-based clinical services 
after a hospital stay; a Health Home 
that coordinates care for people 
with chronic conditions and serious 
mental health conditions; and 
Correctional Health Services (CHS), 
which provides care to individuals in 
custody on Rikers Island.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
NYC Health + Hospitals’ mission is to deliver high-quality health care services to all 
New Yorkers with compassion, dignity, and respect, regardless of income, immigration 
status, gender identity, or insurance status. In keeping with its mission, NYC Health 
+ Hospitals provides accessible and equitable care to diverse communities without 
exception. The System serves marginalized groups who are more likely to experience 
poverty and face a disproportionate amount of harmful daily stressors and barriers, 
which contribute to and exacerbate chronic disease and health inequity. More than 
70 percent of patients identify as either Black/African American, Hispanic/Latinx, or 
Asian American Pacific Islander, and an estimated 30 percent of patients have limited 
English proficiency.
The System works to advance health equity by creating models of care that remove 
barriers for specific populations. The System’s Street Health Outreach + Wellness 
(SHOW) program addresses the needs of diverse populations, with a focus on 
unsheltered New Yorkers, by deploying mobile health units across the City. SHOW 
provides care without pre-scheduled appointments or costs, connecting thousands of 
New Yorkers to essential services including primary care, wound care, chronic disease 
management, testing and vaccinations, mental health resources, harm reduction 
supports, and housing supports. The System’s Bridge to Home program also helps 
close the gap between inpatient psychiatric care and permanent housing by providing a 
home-like setting with onsite wraparound services for New Yorkers with serious mental 
illness as they transition to stable housing. Additionally, the System’s Correctional 
Health Services (CHS) division provides a full spectrum of high-quality health care to 
individuals in custody in New York City with dignity and respect. CHS’s mission is to 
diagnose and treat such individuals and to provide support from the first to the last day 
in jail, ultimately helping patients successfully reenter their communities. NYC Health + 
Hospitals also continues to expand its MetroPlusHealth plan, offering low- to no-cost 
health insurance options to eligible New Yorkers. 
Finally, to further address equity, an internal advisory group called the Equity and 
Access Council supports the System’s Office of Diversity and Inclusion and develops 
initiatives that promote equity among staff and patients. The Council focuses on 
optimizing care delivery and health outcomes by eliminating racial and social barriers, 
promoting institutional and structural equity, identifying and reducing health disparities, 
and continuously improving the health of vulnerable communities. Recognizing the 
importance of a physician workforce that reflects the diversity of New York City, 
NYC Health + Hospitals established the Medical Opportunities for Students and 
Aspiring Inclusive Clinicians (MOSAIC) Visiting Scholars Program to expand access to 
clinical training opportunities for talented medical students from underrepresented 
backgrounds. During Fiscal 2026, MOSAIC expanded academic partnerships with 
medical schools nationwide, doubled the number of participating students and 
clinical training opportunities, and further strengthened its role as a strategic physician 
workforce pipeline by encouraging students from underrepresented backgrounds to 
pursue residency training and long-term careers within the System. NYC Health + 
Hospitals continues to develop recruitment and retention programs to attract staff 
who reflect the communities it serves.
<<<PAGE 228>>>
Page 216  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Provide medical, mental health and substance use services to New York City residents regardless 
of their ability to pay.
Goal 1a Expand access to care.
Goal 1b Enhance the sustainability of the Health + Hospitals system.
Goal 1c Maximize quality of care and patient satisfaction.
<<<PAGE 229>>>
NYC HEALTH + HOSPITALS  |  Page 217
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Provide medical, mental health and substance use services to New York City residents 
regardless of their ability to pay.
Goal 1a Expand access to care.
The total number of unique patients seen in the System decreased by 
less than two percent from 1,191,776 in Fiscal 2025 to 1,170,529 in 
Fiscal 2026, while the number of unique primary care patients seen 
in the last 12 months increased slightly, reaching 461,593 patients 
in Fiscal 2026 compared to 459,441 in Fiscal 2025. The increase in 
primary care patients marks the fourth consecutive year of growth and 
reflects the System’s ongoing efforts to improve access for new patients, 
streamline scheduling, and optimize clinic staffing to maximize provider 
and care team time for direct patient care. Expanding access to primary 
care services is essential to improving long-term health outcomes and 
supports the System’s broader efforts to strengthen access to primary 
care while reducing its reliance on emergency departments and other 
acute care services. 
The System served 215,554 uninsured patients in Fiscal 2026, seven 
percent fewer than in Fiscal 2025. Similarly, enrollment in NYC Care, 
the System’s health care access program that guarantees low-cost 
and no-cost services to New Yorkers who do not qualify for or cannot 
afford health insurance, decreased 12 percent from 140,222 patients 
in Fiscal 2025 to 123,124 in Fiscal 2026. These decreases are a result 
of expanded health insurance access and enrollment via several New 
York State measures including continuous Medicaid eligibility for children under the age of six, the state’s policy change to 
allow Medicaid eligibility for New Yorkers 65 and older regardless of immigration status, and expansion of Medicaid and 
Child Health Plus through one year postpartum. Despite ongoing efforts to improve financial counseling rates across the 
System, anecdotally the System is hearing of an increasing reluctance from the City’s immigrant community to provide the 
information needed for the System to adequately provide financial counseling and enrollment in insurance or NYC Care 
due to fear of sharing personal information with government systems. The System partners with 20 community-based 
organizations (CBOs) across New York City, as well as the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs, to encourage enrollment in 
health insurance programs for those who qualify and in NYC Care for those who cannot access insurance. In addition, in 
Fiscal 2026, NYC Care ran the Light the Way citywide public awareness marketing campaign to encourage enrollment and 
re-enrollment for NYC Care-eligible New Yorkers. The campaign highlighted the diversity of NYC Care’s members, new 
benefits including low- and no-cost durable medical equipment, and the level of access to high-quality primary, specialty, 
and preventive care one can attain by using the NYC Care membership card. While these factors resulted in the System 
seeing less uninsured patients in Fiscal 2026, the System anticipates growth in the uninsured population in Fiscal 2027 due 
policy changes enacted in the federal Budget Reconciliation Act (H.R.1) of 2025 that increased administrative requirements 
to maintain Medicaid coverage, limited immigrant eligibility for marketplace premium assistance and increased demand for 
financial assistance for health care. The System is continuously reviewing changes related to H.R.1, monitoring for behavioral 
and data changes, and preparing for potential increased demand for programs like NYC Care in the future.
Telehealth visits, patient-facing appointments conducted with both video and audio, remain a key mechanism for patients 
to maintain access with their care teams. A total of 399,678 visits were completed in Fiscal 2026, an 11 percent decrease 
from 448,174 Fiscal 2025. As the overall balance between in-person and telehealth visits continues to stabilize toward an 
anticipated plateau after these virtual visits were inflated during the COVID-19 pandemic, fluctuation in telehealth visit volume 
is expected. eConsults are provider-to-provider electronic referrals where a specialist reviews a case and gives recommendations 
without the patient present. The number of completed eConsults decreased as anticipated, dropping from 395,090 in Fiscal 
2025 to 212,229 in Fiscal 2026, following a Fiscal 2025 eConsult platform upgrade. The System completed the transition to 
upgrade from the historical eConsult system in Fiscal 2026, which included moving nearly every referral from primary care 
to specialty care, resulting in most referrals being scheduled for face-to-face specialty visits. With this new eConsult process, 
improved upfront specialty-specific clinical guidance is presented to the referring primary care provider when they enter the 
Follow-up Appointment Kept within 30 Days 
After Behavioral Health Discharge
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
65.7%
48.1%
54.0%
62.0% 65.0%
<<<PAGE 230>>>
Page 218  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
referral order. The primary care provider can then request an in-person specialty appointment or an eConsult for specific 
clinical questions. As such, the overall number of eConsults has and will continue to decrease as it is limited to only referrals 
which were fully addressed electronically. Greater precision in this new eConsult process will ultimately optimize capacity in 
specialty services and enable shorter wait times for patients who require face-to-face specialty care visits. 
The percentage of primary care and obstetrician-gynecologist (OBGYN) patients with a mammogram completed in the 
last two years reached 72.7 percent in Fiscal 2026. This is not comparable to the previous numbers reported because of 
changes in eligibility implemented before the Fiscal 2026 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report: the eligible age range 
for women to receive a mammogram expanded from 40–70 to 40–74. A systemwide breast cancer screening registry 
and accompanying dashboard have been launched to support primary care, OBGYN, breast imaging, and breast surgery 
departments in understanding their performance, tracking progress over time, and pulling patient-level data to support 
targeted outreach and intervention. Additionally, the expansion of breast imaging services across the System’s network of 
community-based health centers (Gotham Health) is improving access to preventative care for communities served.
The number of eligible patients receiving prenatal depression screenings rose slightly from 92.7 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 
93.3 percent in Fiscal 2026, and the number of eligible patients receiving postpartum depression screenings rose three 
percentage points from 79.1 percent to 82.3 percent. These increases reflect the System’s continuous commitment to 
providing comprehensive depression and anxiety screenings to all patients, with particular attention to maternal depression 
to ensure better outcomes for women and children. The System worked to expand access to this service over the last fiscal 
year by making the screenings available in all NYC Health + Hospital facilities and re-training staff on screening protocols.
Consistent with the System’s commitment to improving access to care, both adult medicine and pediatric units achieved 
a four-day decrease in the number of calendar days to the third next available new appointment (TNAA) in Fiscal 2026 
compared with Fiscal 2025, decreasing from 13 days to nine days for adult medicine and 17 days to 13 days for pediatrics. 
This reflects the System’s expansion of access to primary care, as well as ongoing optimization of scheduling practices, care 
team time allocation, and the equilibrium between appointment capacity and demand.
The System is committed to supporting seamless transitions from inpatient behavioral health care to community-based 
services after discharge. Effective care coordination is especially important for individuals with complex behavioral health 
needs and helps ensure continuity of care beyond the hospital setting. To ensure a successful transition from inpatient to 
outpatient care, the System prioritizes engaging patients and facilitating timely connections to follow-up care. As a result, 
the percentage of follow-up appointments kept within 30 days after behavioral health discharge improved slightly in Fiscal 
2026, increasing from 65.0 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 65.7 percent in Fiscal 2026. This was accomplished through close 
collaboration between the System’s Office of Behavioral Health and other facilities to ensure consistent staff training. The 
training equips staff with strategies to support patients in keeping their follow-up appointments soon after discharge, 
connecting them to available aftercare resources and recording these follow-up appointments using a standard workflow. 
NYC Health + Hospitals is continuing to strengthen its 30-day aftercare follow-up efforts to build on this progress.
Total correctional health clinical encounters at Rikers per 100 average daily population decreased slightly from 12,437 
encounters in Fiscal 2025 to 12,298 encounters in Fiscal 2026. This is due to natural fluctuations in the clinical needs 
of current patients and operational and environmental factors in the jails, as well as changes in clinical workflows and 
documentation. The percentage of patients with a substance use diagnosis who received contact with CHS providers in 
Fiscal 2026 remained the same as last fiscal year at 85 percent. This metric reflects substance use diagnoses for a range of 
substances and severity, including those without indication for a formal intervention beyond education. Operational and 
environmental factors in the jails can impact CHS providers’ ability to meet with patients with substance use diagnoses. 
There are also natural fluctuations in the clinical profile of patients and minor workflow changes that can impact reporting.
<<<PAGE 231>>>
NYC HEALTH + HOSPITALS  |  Page 219
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 ® Unique patients 1,110,039 1,204,174 1,210,437 1,191,776 1,170,529 ñ ñ Neutral Up
Unique primary care patients (seen in the last 12 months) 413,908 427,337 442,736 459,441 461,593 * * Up Up
 Uninsured patients served 391,810 219,943 249,785 231,368 215,554 * * Down *
 NYC Care enrollment 113,178 119,234 143,503 140,222 123,124 ñ ñ Up Up
Telehealth visits 684,066 608,204 541,518 448,174 399,678 * * Down *
 eConsults completed 404,406 426,532 437,552 395,090 212,229 ñ ñ Down Up
 Eligible women receiving a mammogram screening (%) 72.7% 78.3% 79.7% 80.8% 72.7% 80.0% 80.0% Neutral Up
Eligible patients receiving prenatal depression screenings (%) NA NA 86.4% 92.7% 93.3% 90.0% 90.0% NA Up
Eligible patients receiving postpartum depression screenings 
(%) NA NA 77.2% 79.1% 82.3% 90.0% 90.0% NA Up
 HIV patients retained in care (%) (annual) 82.1% 84.5% 87.3% 87.4% 87.9% 85.0% 85.0% Neutral Up
Calendar days to third next available new appointment – 
Adult medicine 12.0 12.0 20.0 13.0 9.0 14.0 14.0 Down Down
Calendar days to third next available new appointment – 
Pediatric medicine 12.0 13.0 23.0 17.0 13.0 5.0 5.0 Up Down
 Follow-up appointment kept within 30 days after behav -
ioral health discharge (%) 48.1% 54.0% 62.0% 65.0% 65.7% ñ ñ Up Up
Total correctional health clinical encounters per 100 average 
daily population 12,170 12,020 10,637 12,437 12,298 * * Neutral *
Correctional health patients with a substance use diagnosis 
that received jail-based contact (%) 87% 85% 85% 85% 85% 90% 90% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Enhance the sustainability of the Health + Hospitals system.
In Fiscal 2026, 3.3 percent of patients left an adult emergency department without being seen (LWBS), a slight improvement 
from the 3.7 percent in Fiscal 2025. This is largely due to enhancements to arrival processes, such as improving Emergency 
Medical Services (EMS) handoff, triage and registration processes, electronic medical record modifications, and biometric 
registration. Additional initiatives include optimizing nursing and physician staffing, implementing staffing-to-demand 
models, and expanding direct triage-to-bed and split-flow models based on patient acuity. The System also reviews all LWBS 
cases to identify remaining improvement opportunities and has initiated performance improvement efforts to enhance 
radiology protocols and reduce turnaround times. 
Net days of revenue for accounts receivable—the average number of days it takes the System to collect payment for 
services provided—decreased from 31.8 days in Fiscal 2025 to 27.1 days in Fiscal 2026. Improvement can be attributed to 
a systemwide concentration on addressing aged accounts and increasing the speed of billing. Additionally, the resolution 
of the backlog in self-pay claims that resulted from the Change Healthcare cyberattack in February 2024 contributed to 
the reduction. 
The ratio of patient care revenue/expenses also saw a slight improvement, increasing from 76.9 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 
79.4 percent in Fiscal 2026, continuing to exceed its 75.0 percent target. The patient care revenue/expense ratio is based on 
a calculation that uses the System’s interim, unaudited or audited financial statements, depending on the period. While this 
method provides the most accurate, accrual-based picture for the System’s financial performance of direct reimbursement 
versus expenses, these financial statements are published with a lag of approximately one quarter. As a result, the System 
reports this metric without the final quarter in the Mayor’s Management Report and the Fiscal 2026 final total will be 
updated in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report. 
<<<PAGE 232>>>
Page 220  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Recent federal changes to Medicaid are expected to reduce the number of individuals covered this upcoming year, creating 
financial pressure for MetroPlusHealth, the System’s health insurance plan. MetroPlusHealth offers multiple insurance 
products, including Medicaid Managed Care, as well as commercial products such as MetroPlusHealth Gold, Medicare, 
Marketplace, and Essential Plan coverage. As the Medicaid market shrinks, enrollment opportunities in Medicaid Managed 
Care have also started to decline, contributing to a decrease in overall MetroPlusHealth memberships, down from 687,587 
in Fiscal 2025 to 660,511 in Fiscal 2026—although the proportion of overall membership associated with the System 
remained stable. The impact of the changing Medicaid landscape has been partially offset by growth and favorable financial 
performance in MetroPlusHealth’s MetroPlus Gold product. At the same time, the share of MetroPlusHealth Plan medical 
spending at NYC Health + Hospitals increased from 38.4 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 43.0 percent in Fiscal 2026. 
The percentage of uninsured patients that the System screened and enrolled in insurance or financial assistance increased 
by three-percentage points, up from 83 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 86 percent in Fiscal 2026. Efforts to improve enrollment 
outcomes have included realigning staffing levels with patient volumes and enhancing financial counseling workflows. 
However, external factors continue to create challenges, including the expiration of Affordable Care Act (ACA) subsidies 
and recent changes in Essential Plan eligibility, which have already begun to impact enrollment rates. Additional Medicaid 
changes are expected to further affect enrollment in the coming year. The System has disseminated messaging to patients 
and providers regarding changes to the Essential Plan, including on social media and targeted messages to providers and 
impacted patients.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Patients who left Emergency Department without being seen (%) 5.2% 5.0% 5.1% 3.7% 3.3% 4.0% 4.0% Down Down
 Net days of revenue for accounts receivable 49.7 46.4 64.1 31.8 27.1 25.0 25.0 Down Down
Patient care revenue/expenses (%) 74.8% 73.8% 73.8% 76.9% 79.4% 75.0% 75.0% Neutral Up
 ® MetroPlusHealth membership 648,369 715,343 715,898 687,587 660,511 ñ ñ Neutral Up
 MetroPlusHealth Plan medical spending at Health + Hospitals (%) 42.4% 43.3% 43.5% 38.4% 43.0% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Uninsured patients enrolled in insurance or financial assistance (%) 88% 79% 73% 83% 86% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Maximize quality of care and patient satisfaction.
As a result of efforts to expand patient reach through digital engagement, MyChart activations among primary care patients 
increased by four percentage points from 84.0 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 88.0 percent in Fiscal 2026. Localized support 
for patients at the point of service resulted in increased activations and provided ongoing support for existing patients as 
new features came online, ultimately enabling additional ways of streamlining the patient experience through technology. 
The outpatient satisfaction rate increased slightly, from 88.0 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 88.4 percent in Fiscal 2026, maintaining 
a steady, positive trajectory for the last five years, and moving toward the Fiscal 2027 target of 89.5 percent. Following the 
implementation of shorter new-patient appointments, this steady incremental growth indicates strong workforce adoption 
and acceptance of the revised scheduling durations. The upward trend is largely driven by enhanced digital accessibility, 
including MyChart messaging and telemedicine, alongside the rollout of service excellence standards. 
Similarly, the inpatient satisfaction rate remained relatively stable, up slightly from 65.5 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 65.6 
percent in Fiscal 2026, maintaining a steady trajectory for the overall patient experience, and moving toward the Fiscal 
2027 target of 66.6 percent. This stability is driven by targeted patient experience initiatives designed to better equip staff, 
including the rollout of the System’s service excellence standards. To further maximize frontline care delivery, the System 
implemented workforce wellness and employee engagement strategies and initiatives, tailored to burnout support, and 
process optimizations aimed at increasing providers’ direct time at patients’ bedside.
The System’s post-acute care satisfaction rate demonstrated significant growth, rising four percentage points from 68.5 
percent in Fiscal 2025 to 72.3 percent in Fiscal 2026. This upward trajectory is a direct reflection of strategic initiatives 
executed across all five nursing home facilities, including robust employee engagement efforts designed to support frontline 
staff and localized, targeted resident care improvement projects. The year-over-year gains underscore a unified commitment 
to elevating the quality of long-term care and optimizing the overall resident experience.
<<<PAGE 233>>>
NYC HEALTH + HOSPITALS  |  Page 221
The System’s patient safety culture is assessed every two years through a survey, aligning with regulatory requirements. 
In comparison to Fiscal 2024, the System saw a nine-percentage point increase in the safety grade for acute care, rising 
to 64.0 percent in Fiscal 2026, reflecting more staff rating patient safety as “excellent.“ Similarly, the System saw a 
10-percentage point increase in post-acute care safety grades, rising to 73.0 percent, and a three-percentage point increase 
in ambulatory care safety grades, rising to 61.0 percent in Fiscal 2026. Notably, these improvements occurred alongside a 
rise in the total number of staff responding to the survey across all care settings and roles. Compared to Fiscal 2024, the 
participant pool increased by more than 10,000 respondents, and there was an eight percent increase in response rate. 
Ultimately, this resulted in more than 35,000 voices being actively represented in patient safety ratings across the System, 
which reflects broad and meaningful staff engagement. The rise in patient safety grades across all care settings reflects the 
System’s commitment to a just culture and psychological safety. Emphasis on improvement and enhancing cross-functional 
collaboration and communication, combined with greater transparency and recognition of safe practices, have reinforced 
a culture of continuous learning and safety across the System.
The System maintains multiple institutional mechanisms to promote community outreach and receive feedback from 
patients and local residents. One of the primary mechanisms is its Community Advisory Boards (CABs). CABs are made 
up of volunteer advocates for each of the 21 of the System’s facilities serving the City. CAB members are patients and 
residents that are concerned about crucial health care issues and carrying out the mission and values of the System. The 21 
facility specific CABs held 202 meetings in Fiscal 2026, seven more meetings than in Fiscal 2025. There is also a Council of 
Community Advisory Boards composed of the 21 chairs representing each facility’s CAB. The Council is a collective body 
for health advocacy and is responsible for ensuring the individual CABs receive relevant information from the System and 
that the System receives feedback about the concerns and interests of the respective CABs. The Council of CABs had 10 
meetings in Fiscal 2026, consistent with Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
MyChart Activations - Primary Care (%) 74.7% 72.4% 76.6% 84.0% 88.0% * * Up Up
Outpatient satisfaction rate (%) 85.2% 85.4% 86.4% 88.0% 88.4% 85.4% 89.5% Neutral Up
Inpatient satisfaction rate (%) 62.9% 61.7% 64.7% 65.5% 65.6% 65.8% 66.6% Neutral Up
 Post-acute care satisfaction rate (%) 54.9% 57.7% 60.8% 68.5% 72.3% 86.3% 86.3% Up Up
 Patients diagnosed with diabetes who have appropriately con -
trolled blood sugar (%) 65.3% 68.8% 68.2% 67.8% 69.9% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Overall safety grade – Acute care (%) 50.0% NA 55.0% NA 64.0% * * NA Up
Overall safety grade – Post-acute care (%) 64.0% NA 63.0% NA 73.0% * * NA Up
Overall safety grade – Ambulatory care (diagnostic & treatment 
centers) (%) 48.0% NA 58.0% NA 61.0% * * NA Up
Total System Council of Community Advisory Board meetings held 
over the year 10 10 10 10 10 * * Neutral *
Total facility-specific Community Advisory Board meetings held over 
the year 190 190 190 195 202 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Payout ($000) NA $76,625 $59,084 $54,775 NA * * NA Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 234>>>
Page 222  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY264 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $12,742.1 $10,878.7 $12,414.4 $13,027.5 $13,189.9 $12,092.1 $12,988.8 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $13,474.5 $11,587.9 $13,174.5 $13,677.30 $13,973.8 $12,667.1 $13,916.2 Up
Personnel 38,497 39,738 43,582 46,256 47,236 46,917 46,917 Up
Overtime paid ($000,000) $192.3 $215.3 $258.7 $300.9 $291.4 $226.6 $224.4 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $543.7 $414.8 $386.0 $293.1 $259.6 $1,495.8 $648.9 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the "Indicator Definitions" at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds     4FY26 value remains a projec -
tion; actuals pending.     "NA" - Not Available          * None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
       001 - Lump Sum Appropriation (OTPS) 1 $3,351.1 $1,964.1 All
1These figures are limited to the City’s contribution and planned contribution respectively    2Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 
2025. Includes all funds.    3Includes all funds       4Refer to goals listed at front of chapter. 
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Dr. Mitchell Katz continues to serve as President and CEO of the NYC Health + Hospitals.
• The indicator ‘MetroPlus membership’ in Goal 1b was renamed ‘MetroPlusHealth membership’ for clarity.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Outpatient satisfaction rate (%)’ in Goal 1c was updated from 85.4 percent to 89.5 percent.
• The Fiscal 2025 figure for ‘Inpatient satisfaction rate (%)’ in Goal 1c was updated from 65.7 percent to 65.5 percent 
after a review of historical data. The Fiscal 2027 target was also updated from 65.8 percent to 66.6 percent.
• The Fiscal 2022 figure for ‘Post-acute care satisfaction rate (%)’ in Goal 1c was updated from 81.9 percent to 54.9 
percent. The Fiscal 2023 figure was updated from 84.0 percent to 57.7 percent, the Fiscal 2024 figure was updated 
from 86.5 percent to 60.8 percent, and the Fiscal 2025 figure was updated from 89.0 percent to 68.5 percent. This is 
because the calculation for this metric was updated to provide the top box score instead of the mean score. Previously, 
the post-acute care satisfaction rate was calculated using the mean score of the percent of post-acute patients in the 
System’s skilled nursing facilities (excluding LTACH) who are likely to recommend nursing homes for care by answering 
the resident experience survey item “Likelihood of Recommending.” The new calculation now provides the top box 
score, which is calculated as the number of residents choosing “Very Good” based on the rating scale options of “Very 
Poor,” “Poor,” “Fair,” “Good,” and “Very Good,” divided by the total number of residents who responded to the 
survey item, for the time period in question.
• The value for ‘Payout’ in Agencywide Management is not available because starting in Fiscal 2026, values will only be 
reported annually as final audited data in the Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR) rather than as an initial 
estimate in the Mayor’s Management Report (MMR). Historically, initial figures for this indicator were provided by the 
Law Department in the MMR, while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
in the following PMMR. OMB uses a different process and timeline to determine the finalized audited amount disbursed 
by the City, prompting this change to clarify reporting.
<<<PAGE 235>>>
NYC HEALTH + HOSPITALS  |  Page 223
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information, go to:
• For more information on NYC Care, please visit 
www.nyccare.nyc/
For more information on the agency, please visit: https://www.nychealthandhospitals.org/.
<<<PAGE 236>>>
Page 224  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 237>>>
HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION  |  Page 225
HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION
Erin Dalton, Commissioner   
Scott French, Administrator
WHAT WE DO
The Human Resources Administration 
(HRA) administers major benefit 
programs that provide economic 
support to New Yorkers in need 
and works to prevent homelessness 
by providing rental assistance, 
affordable housing programs, and 
legal services for those facing housing 
instability. HRA also promotes 
opportunity through employment 
programs and provides essential 
resources to vulnerable New Yorkers, 
including persons with disabilities, 
immigrants, survivors of domestic 
violence, New Yorkers living with 
HIV/AIDS, and seniors. In this role 
connecting millions of families and 
individuals with vital lifelines, HRA is 
at the forefront of addressing poverty 
citywide, statewide, and nationwide.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
The Human Resources Administration (HRA) is integrated with the Department of 
Homeless Services (DHS) under the management structure of the Department of 
Social Services (DSS). The Agency serves over three million New Yorkers annually 
through programs that address poverty and income inequality, including cash 
assistance, food assistance, and Medicaid public health insurance. DSS/HRA also 
prevents homelessness by providing rental assistance, affordable housing services, 
and legal services programs to families and individuals. Additionally, DSS/HRA 
administers the Fair Fares transit discount program and IDNYC, the City’s municipal 
identification program.
In New York City, as in the rest of the United States, persistent racial inequity is 
manifested in higher poverty rates, greater housing insecurity, and more limited 
access to health care for Black and Latinx residents. DSS/HRA provides an array 
of anti-poverty programs and initiatives that serve low-income New Yorkers, a 
disproportionate number of whom are people of color. DSS/HRA has a client-
centered approach to address poverty and inequity by modernizing and simplifying 
access to benefits through business process and technology innovations, 
enhancing anti-eviction and immigration-related legal services, and expanding 
rental assistance and other affordable housing and social services programs. The 
Agency continues to increase opportunities for New Yorkers through outreach 
and economic empowerment services that promote financial security and stability.
<<<PAGE 238>>>
Page 226  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Improve access to assistance that provides economic stability to support the basic needs of all 
eligible children and adults.
Goal 1a Provide access to cash assistance benefits for all eligible children and adults.
Goal 1b Provide access to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits for all eligible children and adults.
Goal 1c Provide access to Medicaid public health insurance coverage for all eligible children and adults.
SERVICE 2 Increase financial independence and upward mobility out of poverty through employment, 
education, skills enhancement, job search, job placement, wellness services and other supports.
Goal 2a Increase the proportion of cash assistance recipients who obtain and retain paid employment.
Goal 2b Provide wellness, rehabilitation, and employment services to cash assistance recipients with special needs 
to assist them to become healthy enough to work, or to obtain federal disability benefits if they are unable 
to work.
Goal 2c Provide access to child support services for eligible parents and their children.
Goal 2d Expand access to municipal benefits and other financial supports.
SERVICE 3 Reduce homelessness among children and adults.
Goal 3a Prevent homelessness and support housing stability.
Goal 3b Provide safe and appropriate services in shelter and in the community to survivors of domestic violence.
SERVICE 4 Provide support services for eligible vulnerable and/or frail children and adults and for children 
and adults with disabilities.
Goal 4a Ensure that all eligible vulnerable and/or frail children and adults, and children and adults with disabilities 
receive services to resolve immediate risk and provide ongoing assistance to enhance their safety and 
independence.
<<<PAGE 239>>>
HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION  |  Page 227
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Improve access to assistance that provides economic stability to support the basic needs of 
all eligible children and adults.
Goal 1a Provide access to cash assistance benefits for all eligible children and adults.
The number of persons receiving Cash Assistance (CA) was 566,500 in June 2026, six percent lower than in June 2025, in 
part due to the resumption of federal and New York State mandates in Fiscal 2025 that require participation in work, job 
search, educational, or other engagement activities. The 12-month unduplicated number of CA recipients, the measure 
of total unique clients served over the course of a year, increased by one percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025.
Applications for CA increased by one percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025 and remain historically high, partially 
as a result of expanded electronic application options. These modernization efforts enable CA clients to conduct business 
with HRA more efficiently without physically coming into a HRA Benefits Access Center, where individuals can apply for 
and learn more about HRA benefits. As a result, the percentage of CA applications filed electronically remained above 90 
percent in Fiscal 2026. 
In Fiscal 2026, the CA application timeliness rate improved three percentage points to 65.8 percent. To improve timeliness, 
the Agency implemented a new technology tool to streamline the process of assigning cases for review. The percentage 
of CA cases in sanction status was 0.2 percent in Fiscal 2026, largely due to the resumption of federal and New York State 
mandated engagement activities, but remains much lower than historical levels—the rate was 2.4 percent as recently as 
Fiscal 2020. Sanctions were largely suspended in the years following the COVID-19 pandemic until Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Cash Assistance — Persons receiving Assistance (000) 425.0 481.5 557.6 601.1 566.5 * * Up *
 Cash Assistance — Caseload (point in time) (000) 235.5 267.4 311.6 339.4 314.6 * * Up *
 Cash Assistance — Unduplicated number of persons (12-month) 
(000) 585.5 660.8 787.4 855.6 862.7 * * Up *
Cash Assistance — Applications (000) 374.6 489.7 560.3 567.2 573.3 * * Up *
Cash Assistance — Application acceptance rate (%) 44.1% 40.7% 36.5% 37.6% 37.5% * * Down *
 Cash Assistance — Application timeliness rate (%) 82.3% 28.8% 42.4% 63.2% 65.8% 95.0% 95.0% Neutral Up
Cash Assistance — Applications filed electronically (%) 89.1% 88.9% 92.6% 93.2% 92.9% * * Neutral *
Cash Assistance — Cases in sanction status (%) 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.2% * * Up *
Cash Assistance — Average monthly benefit ($) $350 $376 $356 $356 $370 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Provide access to Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits for all eligible children and adults.
The number of people receiving Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits decreased by seven percent 
to 1.68 million in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025, driven primarily by a nine percent decrease in the number of non-
CA SNAP recipients. The number of SNAP recipients also receiving CA decreased by six percent compared to Fiscal 2025 
to 567,200 recipients. These changes are aligned with nationwide trends driven by the effects of the federal budget 
reconciliation bill known as H.R.1, signed into law in July 2025, which expanded SNAP work requirements for able-bodied 
adults without dependents by raising the qualifying age from 54 to 64 and narrowing the dependent-child exemption, 
while also tightening eligibility for certain immigrant populations. It is estimated that SNAP participation has decreased by 
11 percent across the United States between the law’s enactment in July 2025 and April 2026.
<<<PAGE 240>>>
Page 228  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
The SNAP payment error rate was 14.64 percent in Federal Year 2025—which runs from October 1 to September 30—a 
two percentage point decrease from the previous year. To reduce the SNAP Payment Error Rate, the Agency has conducted 
internal audits to identify areas for targeted training, hired additional training resources for the largest SNAP worker 
locations, introduced a payment integrity tool, enhanced systems through additional flags and reminders, and also began 
testing a new tool that flags discrepancies and potential errors for staff. In Fiscal 2026, the SNAP application timeliness rate 
was 84.7 percent, a three percentage point decrease compared to Fiscal 2025 but a continued improvement compared 
to recent years—the rate was 39.7 percent as recently as Fiscal 2023. The Agency is continuing efforts to streamline and 
automate application processing to improve timeliness moving forward.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 ® Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) — Persons 
receiving benefits (000) 1,713.4 1,739.2 1,789.6 1,796.3 1,678.2 * * Neutral *
SNAP — Cash assistance persons receiving benefits (000) 446.1 483.2 562.4 600.6 567.2 * * Up *
® SNAP — Non-cash assistance persons receiving program benefits 
(000) 1,038.6 1,026.0 999.4 974.1 889.1 * * Down *
SNAP — SSI persons receiving benefits (000) 228.8 230.0 227.8 221.6 221.9 * * Neutral *
SNAP — Total households receiving benefits (000) 1,011.0 1,031.9 1,066.4 1,076.6 1,016.2 * * Neutral *
SNAP — Cash assistance households receiving benefits (000) 232.5 254.7 300.1 326.3 303.6 * * Up *
SNAP — Non-cash assistance households receiving benefits (000) 565.3 562.6 553.8 543.8 505.6 * * Neutral *
SNAP — SSI households receiving benefits (000) 213.2 214.6 212.4 206.6 206.9 * * Neutral *
SNAP — Payment Error Rate (federal fiscal year) (%) 13.91% 14.46% 16.63% 14.64% NA 6.00% 6.00% NA Down
 SNAP — Application timeliness rate (%) 60.1% 39.7% 65.1% 87.6% 84.7% 95.0% 95.0% Up Up
SNAP — Applications filed electronically (%) 96.9% 91.6% 90.2% 90.7% 87.4% * * Neutral *
SNAP — Average monthly benefit for Cash Assistance recipients 
receiving benefits $263 $278 $249 $247 $249 * * Neutral *
SNAP — Average monthly benefit for non-Cash Assistance recipi -
ents receiving benefits $270 $272 $227 $228 $229 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Provide access to Medicaid public health insurance coverage for all eligible children and adults.
In Fiscal 2026, approximately 3.60 million New York City residents were enrolled in Medicaid. This includes approximately 
1.40 million New York City residents enrolled in Medicaid administered by HRA, a 12 percent decrease from 1.60 million 
in Fiscal 2025, pursuant to New York State rules, with the remaining balance enrolled in Medicaid through the New York 
State Health Care Exchange. This decrease was due to the federal government ordering the resumption of closings of case 
renewals in April 2025 among clients who do not renew their coverage—these closings were paused during the COVID-19 
pandemic. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Medicaid — Enrollees administered by HRA (000) 1,474.5 1,572.7 1,658.6 1,598.9 1,403.3 * * Neutral *
Medicaid — Medicaid-only enrollees administered by HRA (000) 719.9 740.9 750.7 673.5 519.4 * * Down *
Medicaid — Application timeliness rate (%) 96.8% 94.2% 88.4% NA NA 95.0% 95.0% NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 241>>>
HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION  |  Page 229
SERVICE 2 Increase financial independence and upward mobility out of poverty through employment, 
education, skills enhancement, job search, job placement, wellness services and other 
supports.
Goal 2a Increase the proportion of cash assistance recipients who obtain and retain paid employment.
HRA Career Services helps CA applicants, recipients, and non-custodial child support parents obtain and retain employment. 
HRA provides services through contracts, training and education referrals, and placement in subsidized and unsubsidized 
jobs in both the public and private sectors. 
In Fiscal 2026, HRA helped 29,100 clients obtain jobs, a 33 percent increase from Fiscal 2025, largely due to an increase in 
referrals to employment activities as the Agency resumed federal and New York State mandates that require participation 
in work, job search, educational, or other engagement activities in Fiscal 2025. In Fiscal 2026, 79.8 percent of clients who 
obtained a job either retained it or did not return to CA within six months (180 days), and 69.4 percent of employed clients 
either retained their jobs or did not return to CA within 12 months, both higher than in Fiscal 2025. HRA’s Career Services 
vendors assist clients to help them return to the labor force if they lose their job within a year of employment.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Clients whom HRA helped obtain employment (000) 9.2 9.2 8.1 21.9 29.1 ñ ñ Up Up
 HRA clients who obtained employment, and maintained employ -
ment or did not return to CA for 180 days (city fiscal year-to-date 
average) (%) 70.5% 69.3% 74.7% 79.1% 79.8% 80.0% 80.0% Up Up
HRA clients who obtained employment, and maintained employ -
ment or did not return to CA for 12 months (city fiscal year-to-date 
average) (%) 56.7% 57.2% 58.2% 62.8% 69.4% * * Up Up
 Safety Net Assistance (SNA) cases engaged in training or educa -
tion in accordance with New York City guidelines (%) NA NA NA NA NA ñ ñ NA Up
 Family cases engaged in training or education in accordance with 
New York City guidelines (%) NA NA NA NA NA ñ ñ NA Up
 Cash assistance family cases participating in work or work-relat -
ed activities per federal guidelines (official federal fiscal year-to-date 
average) (%) 12.5% 13.6% 14.0% 15.8% NA ñ ñ NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Provide wellness, rehabilitation and employment services to cash assistance recipients with special needs 
to assist them to become healthy enough to work, or to obtain federal disability benefits if they are 
unable to work.
HRA’s Wellness, Comprehensive Assessment, Rehabilitation, and Employment program (WeCARE) supports CA clients with 
barriers to employment to achieve self-sufficiency in the workforce and helps those who have disabilities apply for federal 
disability assistance. In Fiscal 2026, there were 49,910 recipients, doubling from Fiscal 2025. This increase is primarily 
attributable to an increase in referrals to engagement activities as the Agency resumed federal and State mandated 
engagement activities noted earlier. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total WeCARE recipients 26,944 17,684 15,133 24,620 49,910 * * Up *
 WeCARE federal disability awards 1,193 1,161 953 1,287 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 242>>>
Page 230  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2c Provide access to child support services for eligible parents and their children.
New child support orders obtained increased 21 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025, due to increased Family 
Court capacity to hear cases, including filling Support Magistrate vacancies and a streamlined case-conferencing process 
for establishing child support orders. Cases with active orders continued to decline, as they have every year since Fiscal 
2012, due to cases aging out when the child is 21 years old, routine case closures, fewer referrals to the court for HRA CA 
cases, and fewer applications from custodial parents not involved with CA. Despite this slight decrease in orders, collections 
remained steady in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total new child support orders obtained 3,742 4,502 5,159 6,798 8,238 * * Up Up
Total child support cases with active orders (end of period) 209,544 200,554 191,190 181,488 176,286 * * Down Up
 Child support cases with orders of support (%) 84.2% 80.6% 75.8% 73.5% 73.1% ñ ñ Down Up
Child support collected ($000,000) $705.3 $685.4 $672.7 $666.4 $668.1 * * Neutral Up
 Support cases with active orders receiving current payments (%) 62.0% 67.3% 67.7% 67.0% 66.8% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2d Expand access to municipal benefits and other financial supports.
DSS/HRA administers IDNYC, the largest municipal identification card program in the nation. IDNYC serves all City residents, 
including vulnerable communities such as people experiencing homelessness, youth, the formerly incarcerated, and others 
who may have difficulty obtaining a government-issued photo ID. IDNYC cards serve as an official identification card and 
help New Yorkers gain access to City services and buildings. The program also offers free memberships to the City’s leading 
museums, zoos, concert halls, and botanical gardens. In Fiscal 2026, 156,977 cards were issued, 21 percent fewer than in 
Fiscal 2025. The number of IDNYC applications processed similarly decreased by 22 percent, from 209,698 in Fiscal 2025 
to 164,264 in Fiscal 2026. The decrease in both applications processed and cards issued in Fiscal 2026 reflects a return to 
typical levels following the elevated demand associated with increased arrivals of asylum seekers to New York City. Starting 
in Fiscal 2023, the Agency saw a significant increase in demand for IDNYC as many newly arrived individuals did not have 
government-issued identification documents. The IDNYC application timeliness rate was 98.7 percent in Fiscal 2026, a 
slight increase compared to the previous year. IDNYC continued to operate an appointment-only model in Fiscal 2026, 
which has streamlined operations and improved processing efficiency.
Launched in January 2019, Fair Fares NYC is a City-funded program that helps low-income New Yorkers manage 
transportation costs. With the Fair Fares NYC discount, eligible New York City residents receive a 50 percent discount on 
subway and eligible bus fares or Access-A-Ride fares. In Fiscal 2026, a total of 384,914 people were enrolled in the program, 
an increase of two percent from Fiscal 2025, as eligibility expanded from 145 percent to 150 percent of the Federal Poverty 
Level in November 2025—the latest in a series of expansions that has raised the threshold from 100 percent of the Federal 
Poverty Level at the program’s 2019 launch. The Agency is planning to expand Fair Fares eligibility once again in Fiscal 2027 
to 200 percent of the Federal Poverty Level.
The Home Energy Assistance Program (HEAP) is a federally funded program that helps low-income homeowners and renters 
heat and cool their homes. For Federal Fiscal 2026, a total of 867,216 cases received HEAP Benefits, a four percent decrease 
from 900,003 in Federal Fiscal 2025. The decrease is attributed to New York State reducing the availability of HEAP programs 
in Federal Fiscal 2026 and the heating benefits season opening later opening later than usual on November 1, 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
IDNYC — Number of applications processed 167,962 191,817 200,922 209,698 164,264 * * Neutral *
IDNYC — Number of cards issued 162,627 175,612 183,682 197,996 156,977 * * Neutral *
IDNYC — Application timeliness rate (%) 98.2% 90.6% 96.7% 97.0% 98.7% * * Neutral Up
 Fair Fares NYC — Total enrollment 271,892 294,505 339,748 378,527 384,914 * * Up *
Home Energy Assistance Program (HEAP) — Cases receiving benefit 753,239 855,948 910,781 900,003 867,216 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 243>>>
HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION  |  Page 231
SERVICE 3 Reduce homelessness among children and adults.
Goal 3a Prevent homelessness and support housing stability.
HRA provides homelessness prevention assistance to families and individuals with housing emergencies and to those at 
potential risk of homelessness. HRA offers access to emergency rent arrears payments and ongoing rental assistance at 
Benefit Access Centers, Housing Courts, and at DHS shelter intake and Homebase locations. 
The Homebase program, a network of community-based organizations that provide homelessness prevention services, had 
33,287 enrollments in Fiscal 2026, a three percent increase compared to Fiscal 2025. The program continues to exceed 
the target of diverting 85 percent of those who receive services from entering shelter. In Fiscal 2026, 93.0 percent of 
single adults, 96.4 percent of adult family households, and 95.4 percent of families with children who received Homebase 
prevention services remained in their communities and avoided shelter entry within 12 months following enrollment. The 
number of cases receiving emergency rental assistance, which includes both households already receiving ongoing cash 
assistance and those only receiving emergency assistance, increased by four percent from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026, to a 
total of 54,343 cases.
The City Fighting Homelessness and Eviction Prevention Supplement rental subsidy, or CityFHEPS, is the largest municipally 
funded rental subsidy in the nation, and a vital tool in HRA’s pursuit to promote housing stability for all New Yorkers. 
CityFHEPS pays part of the monthly rent for eligible tenants anywhere in New York State for up to five years. In June 2026, 
there were a total of 71,887 cases receiving CityFHEPS subsidy, a 22 percent increase compared to June 2025, driven by 
new households entering the program in addition to existing households remaining on the caseload. The average subsidy 
amount for CityFHEPS cases was $2,087 per month as of June 2026, an increase of nine percent compared to June 2025 
as rents continued to rise citywide, but a smaller rate of growth compared to the prior year.
The Agency’s Office of Civil Justice oversees implementation of the City’s Universal Access to Counsel Law, the nation’s 
first law to ensure access to legal services for every tenant facing eviction in housing court. The number of low-income 
households facing eviction and homelessness who were assisted with legal services in housing court increased by three 
percent in Fiscal 2026 to 38,661. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Homebase enrollments 25,636 29,215 29,520 32,211 33,287 * * Up *
 Clients successfully diverted at Prevention Assistance and Tempo -
rary Housing (PATH) from entering a homeless shelter (%) 8.1% 7.6% 8.3% 8.6% 9.5% * * Up *
 Adults receiving preventive services who did not enter the shelter 
system (%) 94.4% 93.9% 94.6% 92.9% 93.0% 85.0% 85.0% Neutral Up
 Adult families receiving preventive services who did not enter the 
shelter system (%) 98.0% 96.6% 97.0% 97.0% 96.4% 85.0% 85.0% Neutral Up
 Families with children receiving preventive services who did not 
enter the shelter system (%) 97.0% 96.7% 96.7% 95.5% 95.4% 85.0% 85.0% Neutral Up
Cases receiving emergency rental assistance 23,082 42,915 56,506 52,285 54,343 * * Up *
CityFHEPS — Cases receiving subsidy 26,668 31,924 44,501 58,723 71,887 * * Up *
CityFHEPS — Average subsidy amount ($) $1,121 $1,344 $1,658 $1,908 $2,087 * * Up *
Low-income cases facing eviction and homelessness who were as -
sisted with legal services in Housing Court 28,730 34,218 28,966 37,463 38,661 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 244>>>
Page 232  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 3b Provide safe and appropriate services in shelter and in the community to survivors of domestic violence.
HRA assists individuals and families who are domestic violence (DV) survivors and require DV services within the community 
or placement in an emergency DV shelter. In Fiscal 2026, the percent of DV-eligible families seeking shelter at Prevention 
Assistance and Temporary Housing (PATH) who entered an HRA DV shelter decreased by two percentage points compared 
to the prior year. The average number of families served per day in the HRA emergency DV shelter program decreased 
slightly by two percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025. The average number of families served per day in HRA’s 
DV Tier II shelter program—which provides shelter for those who have reached the 180-day stay limit in DV emergency 
shelter—increased slightly by two percent in Fiscal 2026.
 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Eligible families seeking shelter at Prevention Assistance and 
Temporary Housing (PATH) who entered HRA’s domestic violence 
shelters (%) 39.0% 23.0% 14.1% 22.2% 19.9% * * Down *
Average number of families served per day in the Emergency Do -
mestic Violence shelter program 751 758 745 766 748 * * Neutral *
Average number of individuals served per day in the Emergency 
Domestic Violence shelter program 1,893 1,952 1,905 1,902 1,827 * * Neutral *
Average number of families served per day in the Domestic Violence 
Tier II shelter program 416 473 522 581 590 * * Up *
Average number of individuals served per day in the Domestic 
Violence Tier II shelter program 1,125 1,257 1,401 1,577 1,601 * * Up *
Domestic violence emergency beds (capacity) 2,375 2,375 2,290 2,290 2,230 * * Neutral *
Domestic Violence Tier II units (capacity) 480 539 593 628 628 * * Up *
Domestic Violence non-residential services programs average 
monthly caseload 1,616 1,620 1,489 1,474 1,480 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 4 Provide support services for eligible vulnerable and/or frail children and adults and for 
children and adults with disabilities.
Goal 4a Ensure that all eligible vulnerable and/or frail children and adults and children and adults with disabilities 
receive services to resolve immediate risk and provide ongoing assistance to enhance their safety and 
independence.
Adult Protective Services (APS) is a State-mandated program that provides services including case management, financial 
management, assistance in obtaining Medicaid and other public benefits, and eviction prevention assistance for physically 
and/or mentally impaired adults who are unable to care for themselves. The number of referrals received by APS increased 
by 11 percent to nearly 37,600 in Fiscal 2026. Referrals continue to increase sharply following a notable decline during 
the COVID-19 pandemic—a period when restricted eviction proceedings, suspended housing court actions, and limited in-
person outreach by community-based organizations resulted in fewer at-risk individuals being referred. This recent growth 
is also driven in part by the Agency’s recent expansion of outreach efforts to increase awareness of APS programs. As a 
result of the increase in referrals, the number of APS assessment cases similarly increased by seven percent and the number 
of cases eligible for services increased by nine percent compared to the same reporting period in the prior year. Despite the 
increase in the number of cases, HRA continues to ensure that cases are processed in a timely manner. The percentage of 
assessment cases with determinations made within the State-mandated 60-day timeframe increased to 96.5 percent and 
the percentage of cases referred to an APS field office visited within three working days remained stable at 96.4 percent.
The total number of cases receiving Medicaid-funded home care services in New York City slightly decreased in Fiscal 
2026 to 305,188. The enrollment of Managed Long-Term Care (MLTC) clients is managed exclusively by New York State 
Managed Care contractors and HRA does not determine service eligibility for this group. Included within the total number 
of cases receiving home care services are 6,913 cases administered by HRA. The average number of days to initiate home 
attendant and housekeeper services for HRA clients—which excludes the State-administered MLTC caseload—decreased 
from 45.0 in Fiscal 2025 to 43.8 days in Fiscal 2026. HRA Personal Care billable hours increased by three percent in the 
reporting period compared to last year, primarily as a result of updated New York State eligibility rules that have increased 
the service needs for new applicants.
<<<PAGE 245>>>
HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION  |  Page 233
The number of new applicants for HIV/AIDS Services Administration (HASA) services decreased by 15 percent to 4,856 in 
Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025, although the number of individuals who received HASA services increased by three 
percent to 35,631 individuals as existing clients remain in the program. The number of cases receiving emergency housing 
assistance decreased by nearly three percent, however, this was offset by a three percent increase in the number of cases 
receiving ongoing rental assistance. The HASA rental assistance application timeliness rate decreased slightly to 92.9 percent.
In Fiscal 2026, the Community Food Connection (CFC) program distributed 62.1 million pounds of fresh and shelf stable 
food to 686 community food programs in all five boroughs, a 32 percent increase compared to 47.1 million pounds in 
Fiscal 2025, due to increased funding for the program. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Adult Protective Services (APS) — Total referrals received 19,403 23,485 29,433 33,875 37,598 * * Up *
APS — Assessment cases 3,025 3,706 4,991 5,947 6,388 * * Up *
 APS — Cases referred  that are visited within three working days 98.5% 97.7% 97.0% 96.5% 96.4% 85.0% 85.0% Neutral Up
APS — Cases accepted or denied for undercare within State-man -
dated 60 days (%) 98.6% 97.7% 95.0% 94.9% 96.5% * * Neutral Up
 APS — Cases eligible for services 5,413 5,556 5,567 5,750 6,249 * * Up *
 Serious personal care complaints resolved in 24 hours (%) 100.0% 97.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Neutral Up
 Average days to initiate home attendant and housekeeper 
services for all cases 29.3 33.3 34.3 45.0 43.8 ò ò Up Down
 Average weekly billable hours for personal care services 59.4 60.0 57.7 57.2 58.8 * * Neutral *
Total cases receiving home care services 240,799 261,865 290,507 309,361 305,188 * * Up *
Cases receiving home care services — HRA clients 6,545 5,854 6,579 6,628 6,913 * * Neutral *
HIV/AIDS Services Administration (HASA) — New Applicants 4,761 5,432 6,070 5,694 4,856 * * Neutral *
 ® HASA — Individuals receiving services 32,851 32,867 33,140 34,748 35,631 * * Neutral *
HASA — Clients receiving housing assistance (%) 83.5% 83.7% 85.4% 85.1% 84.5% * * Neutral *
HASA — Cases receiving emergency housing assistance 2,527 2,444 2,465 2,007 1,955 * * Down *
HASA — Cases receiving supportive housing assistance 4,868 4,799 4,685 4,628 4,506 * * Neutral *
HASA — Cases receiving on-going rental assistance 18,821 19,139 20,152 21,938 22,642 * * Up *
HASA — Rental assistance application timeliness rate (%) 97.4% 96.2% 97.7% 94.6% 92.9% 95.0% 95.0% Neutral Up
Pounds of food distributed through Community Food Connection 
(000) 17,755 45,726 43,093 47,073 62,079 * * Up *
Active Community Food Connection programs — Food Pantries 503 586 585 588 606 * * Up *
Active Community Food Connection programs — Community 
Kitchens 85 87 83 85 80 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT 
DSS continued to focus on maintaining the integrity of the benefit programs it oversees and ensuring that funds are collected 
appropriately through its Accountability Office (AO). In Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025, cost avoidance and recoveries 
increased by 38 percent for CA, increased by 91 percent for SNAP , and increased by 14 percent for Medicaid. Efforts 
include investigation of provider fraud, recovery of monies owed from collection activities such as property and negligence 
liens, and securing repayments from settlements or in cases of concealed income. DSS continues to pursue Medicaid 
investigations under an agreement with New York State, even with the State takeover of most Medicaid administration 
and the enrollment of most Medicaid clients through the State Exchange, New York State’s online marketplace for health 
insurance which launched in October 2013.
New York State administrative fair hearings are held when HRA clients dispute findings on their cases, usually related to 
eligibility determinations or benefit levels. The number of fair hearings requested in Fiscal 2026 was 10 percent higher 
than in Fiscal 2025, in part due to the return of federal and State mandated engagement activities noted earlier. For the 
hearings held in Fiscal 2026 where determinations were made, 13.6 percent resulted in HRA’s decisions being upheld, 
nearly six percentage points higher than in Fiscal 2025.
<<<PAGE 246>>>
Page 234  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
The number of workplace injuries reported increased by 28 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to the prior year. HRA will 
continue to conduct annual workshops on workplace safety with a strong emphasis on reducing workplace violence.
The number of applications filed with United States Citizenship and Immigration Services remained stable, decreasing by 
less than one percent from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026. These filings include applications for employment authorization, 
permanent residency, citizenship, and other visa and immigration programs.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Medicaid recoveries and cost avoidance for fraud waste and 
abuse ($000,000) $252.11 $293.80 $226.44 $244.16 $278.58 * * Neutral *
Cash assistance recoveries and cost avoidance for fraud, waste and 
abuse ($000,000) $58.56 $64.22 $74.81 $128.40 $177.10 * * Up *
Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program (SNAP) cost avoidance 
for fraud and abuse ($000,000) $21.05 $28.91 $33.60 $49.79 $95.04 * * Up *
Fair Hearings requested 164,888 149,196 182,051 170,115 187,602 * * Up *
Fair hearings upheld (%) 14.0% 15.2% 12.0% 8.0% 13.6% * * Down Up
Billed revenue as a percentage of budgeted revenue (%) 66.9% 69.3% 54.6% 66.0% 68.8% * * Neutral Up
Claims filed within 60 days of the close of the expenditure month 
(%) 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% * * Neutral Up
Calls resolved within 48 hours to the customer service call line for 
vendors (%) 65.0% 58.9% 43.5% 45.7% 53.7% * * Down Up
Workplace injuries reported 90 88 93 72 92 * * Neutral Down
Applications filed with the United States Citizenship and Immigra -
tion Services 4,568 5,666 3,693 2,358 2,347 * * Down *
Human services contracts NA NA NA 204 NA * * NA *
Human services contract registration within 30 days of the contract 
start date (%) NA NA NA 49% NA * * NA Up
Total dollars disbursed for human services contracts ($000,000) NA NA NA $772.26 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE 
The number of completed requests for interpretation decreased in Fiscal 2026 by nine percent compared to Fiscal 2025, 
driven primarily by decreased demand for phone interpretation services. Fiscal 2026 saw a nearly six percentage point 
decrease in the rate of calls answered within 30 seconds compared to Fiscal 2025. HRA continued to operate a virtual 
queuing and callback system in Fiscal 2026, so clients do not need to remain on the line, improving the user experience for 
clients. Average customer in-person wait time for service at HRA offices increased by 19 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to 
Fiscal 2025. In part due to federal changes resulting from H.R.1—the federal reconciliation bill noted earlier—average time 
needed to complete a customer service visit increased from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026 which has increased overall wait times.
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 485,805 788,716 910,892 862,060 786,042 * * Up *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 99% 99% 98% 98% 100% 90% 90% Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 98% 99% 98% 99% 100% 90% 90% Neutral Up
Average customer in-person wait time (minutes:seconds) 44:26 68:00 77:30 81:25 97:03 60:00 60:00 Up Down
CORE facility rating 99 98 98 95 97 80 80 Neutral Up
Calls answered within 30 seconds (%) 22.8% 11.3% 8.3% 14.1% 8.3% 80% 80% Down Up
Customer satisfaction rating for Public Health Insurance Program 
services “good” or “excellent” (%) 100.0% 95.7% 97.1% 97.6% 96.8% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 247>>>
HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION  |  Page 235
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $10,965.0 $11,127.0 $12,448.8 $13,167.4 $14,685.9 $14,204.5 $14,989.0 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $54.7 $55.6 $61.1 $66.2 $72.7 $42.6 $42.6 Down
Personnel 10,923 10,841 11,044 10,850 10,747 12,525 12,517 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $85.3 $96.8 $109.7 $74.2 $41.6 $41.6 $41.6 Neutral
Capital commitments ($000,000) $16.5 $57.5 $117.8 $67.5 $48.2 $158.7 $186.2 Up
Human services contract budget ($000,000) $811.3 $823.6 $925.6 $922.7 $1,128.2 $1,113.4 $1,209.9 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $877.9 $981.3 
        201 - Administration $332.3 $364.7 All
        203 - Public Assistance $327.4 $354.1 1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a
        204 - Medical Assistance $66.0 $88.5 1c, 2b, 4a
        205 - Adult Services $102.2 $115.9 1c, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a, 3b, 4a
        207 - Legal Services $3.2 $3.6 All
        208 - Home Energy Assistance $1.0 $1.3 1a
        209 - Child Support Services $27.6 $30.8 2c
        210 - Emergency Food $1.5 $2.2 1b
        211 - Fair Fares $2.6 $3.9 Agency-Wide Management
        212 - Domestic Violence Services $14.1 $16.4 3b
Other Than Personal Services - Total $12,289.5 $13,704.6 
        101 - Administration $372.2 $406.0 All
        103 - Public Assistance $4,541.3 $5,302.4 1a, 1b, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a
        104 - Medical Assistance $6,410.8 $6,801.3 1c, 2b, 4a
        105 - Adult Services $363.1 $318.0 1c, 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a, 3b, 4a
        107 - Legal Services $295.5 $356.1 All
        108 - Home Energy Assistance $66.3 $61.7 1a
        109 - Child Support Services $22.7 $28.1 2c
        110 - Emergency Food $59.1 $79.8 1b
        111 - Fair Fares $81.0 $101.7 Agency-Wide Management
        112 - Domestic Violence Services $77.4 $249.5 3b
Agency Total $13,167.4 $14,685.9 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.  
<<<PAGE 248>>>
Page 236  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Erin Dalton was appointed as Commissioner of the Department of Social Services in February 2026.
• Scott French continues to serve as Administrator of the Human Resources Administration.
• The indicator ‘Cash Assistance—Average monthly benefit ($)’ was added to Goal 1a. This indicator was added to align 
with reporting for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.
• Due to a data issue, Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2026 ‘Medicaid—Application timeliness rate’ in Goal 1c is currently not available.  
• Data for ‘Safety Net Assistance (SNA) cases engaged in training or education in accordance with New York City guidelines 
(%)’ and ‘Family cases engaged in training or education in accordance with New York City guidelines (%)’ in Goal 2a 
are currently unavailable as HRA transitions to a new system of record and re-engages cases following the resumption of 
mandatory engagement requirements in Fiscal 2025. HRA expects to resume reporting these indicators once that process 
is complete.
• Due to a data issue, Fiscal 2026 data for ‘WeCARE federal disability awards’ in Goal 2b is currently not available.
• The indicator ‘Home Energy Assistance Program (HEAP)—Cases receiving benefit’ was added to Goal 2d. The Home 
Energy Assistance Program is a vital program that helps eligible New Yorkers heat and cool their homes. 
• Due to a change in logic beginning in May 2024, the Fiscal 2024 data for ‘Cases receiving home care services—HRA 
clients’ cannot be compared to prior fiscal years.
• The previously published Fiscal 2025 figure for ‘Average customer in-person wait time’ was revised from 81:40 to 81:24 
after further data review.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional agency performance statistics, please visit:
• HRA/DSS Facts (Links to multiple reports updated several times a year):  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/hra/about/facts.page
• Able Bodied Adults Without Dependents (ABAWD):  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/hra/help/able-bodied-adults-without-dependents.page 
• ACCESS HRA:  
https://a069-access.nyc.gov/accesshra/ 
• Prevention Assistance and Temporary Housing Intake Center (PATH):  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/dhs/shelter/families/families-with-children-applying.page
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC:  
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/hra.
<<<PAGE 249>>>
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN’S 
SERVICES Rebecca Jones Gaston, Commissioner
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN’S SERVICES  |  Page 237
WHAT WE DO
The Administration for Children’s 
Services (ACS) is responsible for 
protecting the safety and promoting 
the well-being of New York City’s 
children and strengthening their 
families by providing child welfare, 
juvenile justice, and child care 
services. With regards to child 
welfare, ACS contracts with 
nonprofit organizations to support 
and stabilize families at risk of a 
crisis through prevention services 
and with foster care agencies for 
children unable to remain safely 
at home. The Agency’s Division of 
Child Protection responds to reports 
of suspected child abuse or neglect. 
Concerning youth and family 
justice, ACS manages and funds 
services including detention and 
alternatives to detention, as well as 
Close to Home placement, intensive 
community-based preventive 
alternatives for youth, and support 
services for families. The Division 
of Child and Family Well-Being 
issues child care vouchers for 
children eligible for subsidized 
child care and promotes a two-
generation approach to support 
children and their families through 
public education campaigns and 
a place-based strategy including 
Family Enrichment Centers and the 
Community Partnership Program.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
ACS seeks to establish equitable family support, child welfare and juvenile justice 
programs in which one’s race, gender, sexual orientation, or other identities do not 
predict how one fares within them. African American/Black and Latine families are 
overrepresented at key points along child welfare and juvenile justice pathways. 
ACS has implemented several strategies to address racial disproportionality within 
these systems. 
The Agency’s Collaborative Assessment, Response, Engagement & Support (CARES) 
approach diverts some families from a traditional child welfare investigation and 
connects them with supportive resources. ACS is educating mandated reporters, 
certain professionals who are specially equipped and required to report child 
abuse or mistreatment, to understand when a child abuse and/or neglect report 
is necessary and when it may be better to seek supportive services for a family. 
ACS has also shifted child protection staff to provide more immediate, intensive 
support for families with children at high risk of foster care placement. 
ACS operates Family Enrichment Centers (FECs), which are inviting walk-in spaces 
designed with and for community members where families can participate in 
various offerings and access resources. FECs aim to promote protective factors such 
as social connection, resilience, knowledge of parenting and child development, 
social and emotional competence of children, and access to concrete supports. ACS 
has contracts for 30 FECs, the 30th and final of which started in January 2026. 
Parents with lived experience in the child welfare system provide valuable insight 
on how to improve the Agency’s work. Since 2023, ACS has funded and supported 
the Parents Empowering Parents initiative, a peer support program in which parents 
with prior experience in the child welfare system offer advocacy and guidance to 
those currently navigating it. As of June 2026, there are 95 parent advocates 
within the foster care continuum and foster care agencies are continuing their 
hiring efforts. ACS also contracts with partner organizations to provide parent 
advocates at initial child safety conferences and prevention services, as well as for 
families of youth in detention and Close to Home facilities. 
ACS funds the Fair Futures program, which utilizes coaches and mentors who 
work to enhance education, employment, housing, and permanency outcomes 
for youth between the ages of 11 and 26 currently or formerly involved with 
foster care, as well as for justice-involved youth. Additionally, ACS supports college 
students in foster care through the College Choice program, which offers students 
academic advisement and financial support, including tuition. Young people in 
foster care who participate in vocational and job readiness training also receive 
social and financial support, including a daily cash stipend through the Career 
Choice program. To meet the needs of LGBTQ+ youth in foster care, ACS continues 
to strengthen staff training and foster parent recruitment and training, based on 
findings from an assessment of youth experiences.
<<<PAGE 250>>>
Page 238  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Protect children from child abuse. 
Goal 1a Respond quickly to every allegation of abuse and neglect and perform thorough assessments of safety  
and risk.
Goal 1b Reduce the risk of child maltreatment occurring in at-risk families through the provision of high-quality 
prevention services.
Goal 1c Provide safe and stable foster care placements for children who cannot remain safely at home.
Goal 1d Encourage and support family-based foster care.
Goal 1e Reduce time to reunification, kinship guardianship and/or adoption and maintain strong family connections 
for children.
SERVICE 2 Ensure access to quality early child care and education services in all communities.
Goal 2a Provide access to affordable child care.
Goal 2b Respond quickly to every allegation of abuse and neglect and perform thorough assessments of safety and 
risk at child care centers.
SERVICE 3 Provide custody and care of youth in secure and safe detention and placement facilities while 
providing casework services.
Goal 3a Ensure that detention facilities are safe and secure.
Goal 3b Provide youth in detention and placement with appropriate health and mental health services. 
Goal 3c Provide services to prevent youth from returning to the juvenile justice system.
<<<PAGE 251>>>
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN’S SERVICES  |  Page 239
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Protect children from child abuse. 
Goal 1a Respond quickly to every allegation of abuse and neglect and perform thorough assessments of safety 
and risk.
The number of investigations conducted in response to reports made to the State Central Register of Child Abuse and 
Maltreatment (SCR) declined two percent from 39,158 in Fiscal 2025 to 38,204 in Fiscal 2026. The percentage of reports 
responded to by child protection staff within 24 hours increased from 92.1 percent to 93.0 percent, and the percentage 
of investigations completed within 60 days remained at 97 percent in Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2026, reflecting ongoing 
improvements in timely and complete assessments and service delivery that allow more cases to be resolved within required 
timeframes. ACS continues to work with community and government partners to educate mandated reporters about when 
a call to the SCR is necessary because a child is in danger or has been maltreated, and when it is better to help a family 
obtain supports and services. ACS has reinforced upstream service referrals by providing easier access to family services 
and other resources without requiring a report to the SCR.
The percent of investigations that were substantiated rose three percentage points from 29.5 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 32.5 
percent in Fiscal 2026. As more low- to-moderate-risk cases are being retracked to CARES and diverted to direct services 
and supports, the pool of families experiencing investigations are more likely to have more serious allegations reported to 
the SCR, and more investigations are being substantiated. The percent of children in completed investigations with repeat 
investigations within a year rose from 24.7 percent to 25.1 percent between Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2026, and the percent 
of children in substantiated investigations with repeat substantiated investigations within a year increased from 13.0 percent 
to 13.6 percent during the same period. 
The proportion of new child protection cases that ACS diverted to the Collaborative Assessment Response, Engagement, 
and Support (CARES) track, a child protection response for low- and moderate-risk cases that is governed by New York 
State law and does not involve any determination of possible maltreatment, declined from 22.8 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 
20.1 percent in Fiscal 2026. The total number of CARES cases decreased over nine percent from 10,625 in Fiscal 2025 to 
9,630 in Fiscal 2026. This decrease was driven in part by the reduction in the number of low-risk reports made to the SCR 
by New York City Public Schools (NYCPS) and social service providers, which are increasingly seeking support for these 
families before making a report to the SCR. 
The average child protective specialist caseload declined from 7.0 in Fiscal 2025 to 6.7 in Fiscal 2026, the lowest level 
since achieving a caseload of 6.3 in Fiscal 2021. This decrease can be attributed to the hiring of additional child protective 
specialists ahead of attrition and an increase in availability of case-assignable staff. Supportive measures such as transition 
units, child protection specialist mentors and competitive salaries have also contributed to decreased attrition and increased 
caseload carrying child protection specialists.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Abuse and/or neglect reports responded to within 24 hours of 
receipt from the State Central Register (%) 95.3% 93.5% 91.9% 92.1% 93.0% 100.0% 100.0% Neutral Up
 New State Central Register consolidated investigations 45,068 43,782 40,489 39,158 38,204 * * Down *
Investigations completed in 60 days (%) 94% 93% 96% 97% 97% * * Neutral Up
Investigations that are substantiated (%) 31.8% 28.4% 30.0% 29.5% 32.5% * * Neutral *
Children in complete investigations with repeat investigations within 
a year (%) 25.4% 25.3% 25.1% 24.7% 25.1% * * Neutral Down
 Children in substantiated investigations with repeat substanti -
ated investigations within a year (%) 15.2% 13.5% 13.4% 13.0% 13.6% 14.0% 14.0% Down Down
New CARES cases 5,545 8,587 11,607 10,625 9,630 * * Up Up
New child protection cases that are CARES (%) 11.0% 16.4% 22.3% 22.8% 20.1% * * Up Up
 Average child protective specialist caseload 8.4 9.7 8.1 7.0 6.7 12.0 12.0 Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 252>>>
Page 240  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1b Reduce the risk of child maltreatment occurring in at-risk families through the provision of high-quality 
prevention services. 
The number of families entering child welfare prevention services increased 16 percent from 6,996 in Fiscal 2025 to 8,097 
in Fiscal 2026. The daily average number of children receiving child welfare prevention services rose two percent from 
15,987 to 16,267 and the number of children served during the year increased three percent from 30,565 to 31,542. In 
the Agency’s Family Services Division, the Office of Family Engagement brings together multiple units to support families at 
every stage of their engagement with ACS and community services. The Agency’s Support Line team has trained over 5,000 
NYCPS staff as part of its “Support, Not Report” approach, connecting families to resources before child welfare involvement 
becomes necessary. In line with New York State’s shift from reporting to supporting, the team educates mandated reporters 
citywide on the options available for assisting families. In addition, the Prevention Pathways team collaborates with City 
agencies and other partners including NYCPS, the Department of Homeless Services (DHS), NYC Health + Hospitals (H+H), 
the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA), FDNY, social work schools, private hospitals, and Family Justice Centers to 
promote this approach, facilitating direct referrals by connecting families with appropriate preventive programs. Through 
this work, ACS completed a pilot with H+H that strengthened inter-agency collaboration and increased H+H staff referrals 
by simplifying and standardizing referrals to Family Service providers through the FindHelp platform.
In Fiscal 2026, ACS reinvested funds to help programs serve additional families and more effectively engage families by 
supporting their needs and increasing staffing capacity. The percent of respondents to the Prevention Services Family 
Experience survey who said prevention services are helping them achieve their goals remained above 90 percent, rising to 
94 percent in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Families entering child welfare prevention services 6,818 6,659 7,021 6,996 8,097 8,500 8,500 Up Up
Average number of children receiving child welfare prevention 
services daily 18,291 16,149 16,773 15,987 16,267 * * Neutral Up
Children who received child welfare prevention services during the 
year (annual total) 34,243 30,655 30,459 30,565 31,542 * * Neutral Up
Respondents to the Prevention Services Family Experience Survey 
who said prevention services are helping them achieve their goals 
(%) 90% 93% 93% 93% 94% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Provide safe and stable foster care placements for children who cannot remain safely at home.
The number of children entering foster care declined nearly six percent 
from 3,097 in Fiscal 2025 to 2,927 in Fiscal 2026 remaining far below 
the Fiscal 2019 level of 3,798. Consistent with recent trends, the average 
number of children in foster care declined from 6,414 in Fiscal 2025 to 
a historically low average of 6,268 in Fiscal 2026, well below the Fiscal 
2019 average of 8,341. The total number of days that New York City 
children spent in foster care decreased from 2,895,102 in Fiscal 2025 
to 2,827,326 in Fiscal 2026. These declines are attributable to sustained 
trends and investment in prevention services and other supports that 
enable children to remain with their families.
More than 90 percent of foster children and youth were in family-based 
rather than congregate placements, with 3,097 children in non-relative 
foster homes and 2,611 children in kinship foster homes in Fiscal 2026, 
a two percent increase and an eight percent decrease, respectively, from 
Fiscal 2025. The average number of children in congregate residential 
care increased slightly from 552 in Fiscal 2025 to 561 in Fiscal 2026. This reflects the increase in the number of older youth 
placed in Supported Independent Living Program apartments. ACS continues to work to reduce the number of youth in 
residential foster care settings by identifying step-down opportunities to family-based settings. Additionally, ACS helps 
foster care agencies leverage family finding techniques to identify potential kinship foster care resources. 
0
4000
8000
12000
16000
20000
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Children in Foster Care
7,140 6,728
552
2,826
3,037
6,414 6,268
561
2,611
3,097
645
3,040
3,455
628
2,955
3,142
6,441
554
2,890
2,997
Non-relative Foster 
Boarding Homes
Kinship HomesResidential Care
<<<PAGE 253>>>
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN’S SERVICES  |  Page 241
The number of children who moved from one foster care placement to another decreased from 1.4 per 1,000 care days in 
Fiscal 2025 to 1.3 per 1,000 care days in Fiscal 2026. While ACS always strives to maintain children in stable placements, 
children in foster care may move for a variety of reasons, including sibling reunification and moves to kinship and pre-
adoptive homes. The percent of children who returned to foster care within a year of reunification with their families or 
discharge to kinship guardianship decreased from 9.4 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 8.9 percent in Fiscal 2026. ACS works 
with foster care providers to leverage services, such as ACS-funded prevention services, before and during trial and final 
discharge to support the child’s return home and reduce the likelihood of re-entry. ACS is also strengthening family team 
conferencing practices to ensure timely delivery of services identified in action plans so that families are connected to 
community-based services.
Safety is the Agency’s top priority. The rate of children maltreated in family foster care declined from 3.3 per 100,000 
care days during Fiscal 2025 to 2.3 during Fiscal 2026. ACS continues to examine all such incidents to understand where 
additional supports for and oversight of foster homes could prevent them from occurring.
The number of youth currently or formerly in foster care who received Fair Futures services, an initiative which provides 
targeted coaching and support in areas including socio-emotional development, academics, and life skills to youth in 
foster care, grew from 4,330 in Fiscal 2025 to 4,430 in Fiscal 2026. The number of youth enrolled in College Choice, 
which provides stipends and supports for foster care youth interested in pursuing a two- or four-year college degree, rose 
from 472 in Fiscal 2025 to 523 in Fiscal 2026. Increased enrollment in College Choice can be attributed to several factors 
including college readiness training and support provided to education specialists, college specialists, and post-secondary 
staff at each provider agency, close collaboration with NYCPS to ensure guidance counselors and support staff are aware 
of the program, and enhanced marketing and outreach efforts. ACS also collaborates with NYCPS to implement a variety 
of new initiatives to equip high school students in foster care with the skills, knowledge, and confidence to navigate post-
secondary pathways successfully.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
All children entering foster care 2,910 2,848 3,102 3,097 2,927 * * Neutral *
 ® Average number of children in foster care 7,140 6,728 6,441 6,414 6,268 ò ò Down Down
– Children in foster kinship homes 3,040 2,955 2,890 2,826 2,611 * * Down *
– Children in nonrelative foster boarding homes 3,455 3,142 2,997 3,037 3,097 * * Neutral Down
– Children in residential care 645 628 554 552 561 * * Down Down
Total days all children spent in foster care 3,268,026 3,100,632 2,993,778 2,895,102 2,827,326 * * Down Down
 Moves in foster care per 1,000 care days 1.3 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.3 1.4 1.4 Neutral Down
 Children who re-enter foster care within a year of 
discharge to a family (%) 7.5% 8.5% 8.1% 9.4% 8.9% 6.0% 6.0% Up Down
 Children maltreated during family foster care place -
ment per 100,000 care days 3.7 3.2 3.0 3.3 2.3 3.5 3.5 Down Down
School attendance rate — Children in foster care (%) 79.8% 82.5% 83.8% 82.8% 80.1% * * Neutral Up
Youth in foster care receiving Fair Futures services 3,172 3,932 4,115 4,330 4,430 4,686 4,847 Up Up
Youth in foster care enrolled in College Choice NA 342 408 472 523 430 530 NA Up
Youth in foster care who feel very supported or some -
what supported by their foster parents or residential 
facility staff (%) 89% 91% 93% 91% 93% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1d Encourage and support family-based foster care.
The percentage of children entering care who ACS placed with relatives in kinship care declined five percentage points 
from 42.2 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 37.0 percent in Fiscal 2026. As poverty rates have increased in New York City in recent 
years, families have found it more difficult to care for kin. ACS is making efforts to counter this trend and maintain its 
commitment to placing children with relatives by providing additional resources to families to secure and strengthen kin 
placements, including a monthly stipend, trauma-responsive training, and connections to therapeutic services. 
The proportion of siblings who enter care at the same time and are placed together in the same foster home increased four 
percentage points from 94.4 percent in Fiscal 2025 to all-time high of 98.3 percent in Fiscal 2026. The number of foster 
homes able and willing to accept sibling groups has increased as a result of an increase in the number of foster homes 
<<<PAGE 254>>>
Page 242  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
recruited and conversations with existing foster parents that have space to accommodate sibling groups. Additionally, from 
November 2025 to March 2026 ACS conducted a pilot program with two agencies, asking them to review all their sibling 
groups that were separated to see if they could be reunited, which resulted in several additional sibling groups being placed 
together and increased awareness about the importance of keeping siblings together. ACS intends to expand this pilot to 
all partnering agencies. 
The percent of children entering care who were placed in their community of origin rose from 29.3 percent in Fiscal 2025 
to 31.8 percent in Fiscal 2026, and the percent placed in their borough of origin increased from 58.8 percent to 62.4 
percent. ACS always seeks to place children in their community of origin. When this is not possible, ACS takes measures 
to place children in their borough to maintain continuity in their educational placement and close ties with their family 
and community. ACS continues to implement strategies for children to remain in their community and borough of origin, 
including recruiting foster homes in the communities where children are from and requiring that foster homes are based 
in the five boroughs. The Office of Placement Administration utilizes various tools to support the identification of foster 
parents in specific communities and boroughs. Simultaneously, ACS and partnering foster care agencies continue to seek 
out kin who often live in the same borough and communities where the child is from.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Children entering foster care who are placed with relatives (%) 54.8% 51.8% 48.7% 42.2% 37.0% 50.0% 50.0% Down Up
Siblings placed simultaneously in the same foster home (%) 95.8% 94.9% 94.7% 94.4% 98.3% * * Neutral Up
 Children placed in foster care in their community (%) 27.2% 29.8% 32.6% 29.3% 31.8% 36.0% 36.0% Up Up
Children placed in foster care in their borough (%) 52.7% 52.9% 54.2% 58.8% 62.4% * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1e Reduce time to reunification, kinship guardianship and/or adoption and maintain strong family 
connections for children.
Permanency rates declined slightly from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026 
across all three time-in-care categories (within one year of placement, 
12 to 23 months, and 24 months or more), with rates generally in 
the 20 to 30 percent range, which may be attributable to teenagers 
comprising a larger percentage of the foster care population than just 
five years ago, and historically this population has been harder to place 
into permanent homes.
ACS is implementing a framework with provider agencies to increase 
permanency rates. The framework will increase the capacity of provider 
agencies to engage in structured, data-driven technical assistance to 
improve permanency outcomes for children and youth in out-of-home 
placement. Technical assistance will be individually tailored, using a 
collaborative approach and focusing on incremental continuous quality 
improvement efforts.
The number of foster children who reunified with family increased by 
11 to 1,769 in Fiscal 2026. The Kinship Guardian Assistance Program (KinGAP), in which a relative foster parent receives 
permanent guardianship and financial supports, experienced eight percent more discharges from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026, 
rising from 396 to 428. The number of adoptions declined 22 percent to 405 and the number of children in care who are 
eligible for adoption declined 11 percent to 524 over the same period due to a decline in the number of youth in foster care 
with long periods of stay who are freed for adoption by the courts. The decline in the number of children adopted reflects 
the combined impact of a decrease in the number of children eligible for adoption and an increase in the number of children 
who reached permanency via KinGAP , which is available sooner than adoption and does not require a termination of parental 
rights by the Family Court.  Nonetheless, ACS is continuously assessing children’s eligibility for adoption and working with 
foster care providers to move these cases forward toward finalization.
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
28.2%29.2%29.2%
32.2% 33.3%
Children discharged to permanency 
within a year of placement (%)
<<<PAGE 255>>>
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN’S SERVICES  |  Page 243
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Children discharged to permanency within a year of placement 
(%) 29.2% 32.2% 33.3% 29.2% 28.2% 35.0% 35.0% Neutral Up
 Children in care 12–23 months discharged to permanency (%) 18.3% 23.0% 23.9% 24.2% 22.9% 27.0% 27.0% Up Up
 Children in care 24 or more months discharged to permanency 
(%) 23.1% 23.3% 24.0% 25.6% 25.2% 27.0% 27.0% Up Up
Average number of children eligible for adoption 702 715 624 587 524 * * Down *
Children adopted 469 562 535 522 405 * * Down *
Kinship Guardianship Assistance discharges 396 354 347 396 428 * * Up Up
Children returned to parents (reunifications) 1,770 1,562 1,657 1,758 1,769 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Ensure access to quality early child care and education services in all communities.
Goal 2a Provide access to affordable child care.
Average child care voucher enrollment rose 20 percent from 91,227 in Fiscal 2025 to 109,875 in Fiscal 2026. This increase 
was driven by a 26 percent increase in usage of non-mandated, low-income vouchers, which rose from 56,931 to 
71,499. Despite the pause on issuing new non-mandated vouchers due to program funding gaps, the average number of 
children enrolled with these vouchers grew over the past fiscal year as a result of several years of sustained expansion and 
recertification of vouchers for those already enrolled. Mandated voucher enrollment for families receiving public assistance 
rose 13 percent from 25,932 to 29,386 during the fiscal year, and vouchers for families involved in child welfare services 
increased nearly eight percent from 8,364 to 8,990. 
In Fiscal 2026, enrollment in center-based care increased 22 percent to 64,488, enrollment in family-based child care rose 18 
percent to 40,381, and enrollment in informal child care increased 18 percent to 5,005. The percent of voucher applications 
with eligibility determinations within 30 days remained at 92 percent in Fiscal 2025 and 2026.
From Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026, fiscal year spending per child increased from $15,239 to $16,740 for center-based vouchers 
and from $15,624 to $15,975 for family vouchers, and decreased from $10,739 to $10,467 for legally exempt (informal) 
vouchers. Spending per child across all child care voucher types has increased steadily since Fiscal 2018, when spending per 
child was $8,646 for center-based vouchers, $7,740 for family-based vouchers, and $4,327 for legally exempt (informal) 
vouchers. The increase in cost is due to the New York State Office of Child and Family Services’ (OCFS) 2024 Market Rate 
increase, which was implemented in October 2024. Fiscal 2026 was the first full fiscal year with this Market Rate in place 
and a greater percentage of children enrolled with a voucher at the 2024 Market Rate than in Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Average child care voucher enrollment 47,535 56,978 71,039 91,227 109,875 * * Up *
 Average number of children accessing child care services through 
use of a mandated voucher 20,714 21,897 22,803 25,932 29,386 * * Up *
Average number of children accessing child care services through 
use of a non-mandated low-income voucher 9,393 16,236 31,948 56,931 71,499 * * Up Up
® Average number of children accessing child care services through 
use of a child welfare voucher 17,428 18,846 16,288 8,364 8,990 * * Down Up
 Average center-based child care voucher enrollment 25,301 30,751 39,657 52,730 64,488 * * Up *
 Average family child care voucher enrollment 20,620 23,942 28,386 34,248 40,381 * * Up *
 Average informal child care voucher enrollment 1,614 2,285 2,996 4,249 5,005 * * Up *
Child care assistance applicants with eligibility determinations 
within 30 days (%) 96% 92% 80% 92% 92% 90% 90% Neutral Up
Fiscal year spending per child – Center-based child care vouchers $10,104 $11,892 $12,106 $15,239 $16,740 * * Up *
– Family child care vouchers $8,468 $12,634 $13,902 $15,624 $15,975 * * Up *
– Legally exempt (informal child care) vouchers $5,497 $7,023 $7,985 $10,739 $10,467 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 256>>>
Page 244  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2b Respond quickly to every allegation of abuse and neglect and perform thorough assessments of safety 
and risk at child care centers.
The number of reports of suspected abuse and/or neglect for children in regulated child care programs rose seven 
percent from 528 in Fiscal 2025 to 564 in Fiscal 2026. ACS indicates allegations that meet the New York State standard 
of fair preponderance of evidence on allegations of abuse or maltreatment. The proportion of child care investigations 
that ACS indicates has fluctuated in recent years. The percentage of reports concerning abuse and/or neglect that were 
indicated nearly doubled from a low of 13.1 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 24.4 percent in Fiscal 2026. ACS is working with 
child protection leadership to understand factors that may be leading to a higher indication rate in investigations of 
alleged abuse and/or neglect that occur in child care programs.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Abuse and/or neglect reports for children in child care 377 506 545 528 564 * * Up *
Abuse and/or neglect reports for children in child care that are 
substantiated (%) 18.6% 13.6% 19.5% 13.1% 24.4% * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Provide custody and care of youth in secure and safe detention and placement facilities 
while providing casework services. 
Goal 3a Ensure that detention facilities are safe and secure.
Admissions to juvenile detention decreased for the first time since Fiscal 2021, declining four percent to 2,381 due to a 
decrease in arrests of young people eligible to enter detention. However, the average daily population continued to trend 
upward due to increases in the average length of stay. The overall average daily population rose 19 percent from 336.4 
to 400.9. The secure detention average daily population increased 23 percent from 276.4 to 341.1 and the non-secure 
detention population remained stable at 59.8 in Fiscal 2026. The overall average length of stay in detention rose 22 percent 
to 56 days due to a 33 percent increase in length of stay in secure detention from 80 days in Fiscal 2025 to 106 days in 
Fiscal 2026. These increases reflect a higher proportion of youth with complex or serious cases requiring extended periods 
in detention. ACS is actively engaged with the court system to improve case processing times, in addition to working with 
the New York City Sheriff and the Department of Probation to process eligible youth for release. The length of stay in non-
secure detention remained stable at 18 days for the third consecutive year. 
Safety indicators in detention during Fiscal 2026 reflect stable or improving trends despite the increased population. The 
rate of youth-on-youth assault and altercation with injury per 100 average daily population remained stable at 0.17 in 
Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2026, well below historic rates. The youth-on-staff assault with injury rate per 100 average daily 
population rose slightly from 0.12 in Fiscal 2025 to 0.13 in Fiscal 2026 but remained well below prior year levels and the 
established target. The rate of cases in detention where investigators found a preponderance of evidence of abuse and/
or neglect declined from 0.08 in Fiscal 2025 per 100 average daily population to 0.05 in Fiscal 2026. The abscond rate 
per 100 daily population in non-secure detention halved to 0.06 in Fiscal 2026. ACS continues to implement enhanced 
behavior management, strengthen security practices, and expand clinical supports to address the needs of a growing and 
increasingly complex youth population in detention.
Trends in contraband presence in detention also demonstrated notable improvement. The weapon recovery rate per 100 
daily population in detention decreased from 0.42 in Fiscal 2025 to 0.40 in Fiscal 2026. The illegal substance/prescription 
or over-the-counter medication recovery rate declined from 0.30 to 0.19. These trends reflect the Agency’s commitment 
to deterring and detecting contraband through more frequent and effective searches and screening procedures, including 
the introduction of new millimeter wave body scanners in Fiscal 2026.
<<<PAGE 257>>>
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN’S SERVICES  |  Page 245
The number of young people entering Close to Home, which allows young people who are found to be responsible in Family 
Court to receive placement services in a program close to the communities where they live, rose from 133 in Fiscal 2025 to 
168 in Fiscal 2026. The average number of youth in Close to Home placement from 102 to 112, reflecting the increase in 
admissions. Consistent with the greater number of youth in care, releases from Close to Home residential care to aftercare, 
average number of youth in aftercare, and discharges from Close to Home all increased in Fiscal 2026: releases to aftercare 
increased from 122 to 151, the average number of youth in aftercare increased from 41 to 49, and discharges from Close 
to Home, including youth whose dispositional orders were completed, increased from 111 to 152. The number of Close 
to Home admissions reflects the number of young people whose cases have been resolved in court with a determination 
that the youth be placed. As the number of young people in detention grew in recent years, so has the number of young 
people whose cases were ultimately resolved with a disposition requiring placement.
The absent without consent (AWOC) rate in Close to Home fell from 0.21 in Fiscal 2025 to 0.14 in Fiscal 2026. Over the 
same reporting period, the rate of youth-on-staff assaults with injury per 100 care days in Close to Home increased slightly 
from 0.08 to 0.09 and the rate of youth-on-youth assaults and altercations with injury declined from 0.24 to 0.17. ACS 
remains committed to supporting providers in delivering safe, therapeutic, and individualized care for youth in Close to 
Home through ongoing collaboration with the provider network to strengthen clinical services, treatment planning, and 
improve outcomes for youth.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Admissions to detention 1,319 1,775 1,981 2,487 2,381 ò ò Up Down
 Average daily population in detention 170.0 233.0 278.9 336.4 400.9 ò ò Up Down
– In secure detention 142.6 198.3 237.3 276.4 341.1 * * Up Down
– In non-secure detention 27.4 34.7 41.7 60.0 59.8 * * Up Down
 Average length of stay in detention (days) (total) 38 39 40 46 56 ò ò Up Down
– In secure detention 38 59 67 80 106 * * Up Down
– In non-secure detention 37 17 18 18 18 * * Down Down
 Escapes from secure detention 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Neutral Down
 Abscond rate in non-secure detention (average per 100 total 
ADP in non-secure) 0.09 0.09 0.21 0.13 0.06 0.10 0.10 Neutral Down
 Youth-on-youth assaults and altercations with injury rate in 
detention (per 100 total ADP) 0.29 0.21 0.16 0.17 0.17 0.25 0.25 Down Down
 Youth-on-staff assaults and altercations with injury rate in deten -
tion (per 100 total ADP) 0.21 0.15 0.12 0.12 0.13 0.15 0.15 Down Down
 Weapon recovery rate in detention (average per 100 total ADP) 0.33 0.46 0.40 0.42 0.40 ò ò Up Down
 Illegal substance/prescription or OTC medication recovery rate in 
detention (average per 100 total ADP) 0.25 0.36 0.38 0.30 0.19 ò ò Down Down
 Child abuse and/or neglect reports for youth in detention that 
are substantiated, rate (average per 100 total ADP) 0.13 0.07 0.06 0.08 0.05 ò ò Down Down
 Average daily cost per juvenile in detention ($) $1,576 $1,231 $1,137 $1,021 $1,071 * * Down *
® Admissions to Close to Home placement 72 82 142 133 168 * * Up Down
 Average number of children in Close to Home placement 47 50 78 102 112 ò ò Up Down
Releases from Close to Home placement to aftercare 46 63 93 122 151 * * Up *
 Average number of children in Close to Home aftercare 18 28 28 41 49 * * Up *
Discharges from Close to Home placement (dispositional order 
complete) 63 56 90 111 152 * * Up *
Absent without consent rate, Close to Home placement 0.24 0.21 0.20 0.21 0.14 0.25 0.25 Down Down
Youth-on-staff assault with injury rate in Close to Home placement 0.10 0.11 0.12 0.08 0.09 0.15 0.15 Down Down
Youth-on-youth assault with injury rate in Close to Home placement 0.09 0.10 0.16 0.24 0.17 0.15 0.15 Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 258>>>
Page 246  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 3b Provide youth in detention and placement with appropriate health and mental health services. 
All youth in detention receive a screening by the medical team for acute mental health needs within one hour of their 
admission so that youth who present the highest needs are identified and referred to mental health services. Youth who 
remain in detention for longer than 72 hours receive an additional comprehensive mental health intake that includes 
screening for commercial and sexual exploitation, post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, and problematic substance 
use, as well as a psychosocial assessment. The ability to complete the comprehensive intake is influenced by several factors, 
including the youth’s adjustment to the detention environment, immediate court appearances following admission, rapid 
release from detention, and transfer between the secure detention facilities. If a youth refuses the mental health intake, 
the mental health staff will continue to make efforts to engage the youth. Health screenings within 24 hours of admission 
declined eight percentage points from 98 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 90 percent in Fiscal 2026. The percent of youth who 
received a general mental health screening or services while in detention declined nearly four percentage points from 78.8 
percent to 75.1 percent. These reductions reflect youth movement patterns including short court return dates and transfers 
between facilities, and youth refusals, which remain barriers to timely screening. Despite these challenges, ACS continued 
to meet its target of 100 percent of youth seen within 24 hours of sick call requests.
General health care cost per youth per day in detention decreased slightly from $67 to $65. Overall healthcare expenditures 
have increased in recent years and continued to increase in Fiscal 2026, while the growing number of youth in detention 
has resulted in a slight decrease in healthcare cost per youth.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Youth who received mental health screening or services while in 
detention (%) 86.6% 76.1% 81.6% 78.8% 75.1% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Youth with health screening within 24 hours of admission to deten -
tion (%) 100% 100% 99% 98% 90% 100% 100% Neutral Up
 Residents seen within 24 hours of sick call report (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral Up
 General health care cost per youth per day in detention ($) $171 $87 $73 $67 $65 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3c Provide services to prevent youth from returning to the juvenile justice system.
The percent of youth admitted to detention with a previous admission remained at 47.0 percent in Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 
2026. The number of youth in the Family Assessment Program, which offers supports to families with at-risk youth, increased 
11 percent from 312 to 347. The number of young people in the Juvenile Justice Initiative (JJI) program, which allows 
young people who the Family Court finds to be juvenile delinquents to stay at home and receive intensive services in the 
community, rose 33 percent from 45 to 60. Recent data shows sustained increases in both programs since Fiscal 2022, 
when 236 youth were in the Family Assessment Program and 31 were in JJI. The Family Assessment Program continues to 
conduct community outreach in high volume zip codes. JJI has been consistently engaging court stakeholders to encourage 
and advocate for referrals.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
® Youth admitted to detention with previous admission(s) to deten -
tion (%) 42.0% 41.0% 43.0% 47.0% 47.0% * * Up *
 Youth in the Family Assessment Program 236 279 331 312 347 ñ ñ Up Up
Youth in the Juvenile Justice Initiative 31 33 38 45 60 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 259>>>
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN’S SERVICES  |  Page 247
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT 
Workplace injuries increased from 501 in Fiscal 2025 to 554 in Fiscal 2026. This increase is driven by an uptick in injuries 
to Youth Development Specialists in secure detention facilities requiring Worker’s Compensation Reports, concurrent with 
the increase in the average daily population in secure detention.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Workplace injuries reported 467 384 403 501 554 * * Up Down
Human services contracts NA NA NA 40 NA * * NA *
Human services contract registration within 30 days of the contract 
start date (%) NA NA NA 90% NA * * NA Up
Total dollars disbursed for human services contracts ($000,000) NA NA NA $419.54 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE 
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 118,857 121,076 145,801 146,441 121,697 * * Neutral *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 43.8% 97.0% 97.3% 93.3% 83.3% * * Up Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 79.1% 87.1% 92.4% 93.8% 93.7% * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $2,646.8 $2,988.3 $3,355.1 $3,949.1 $4,431.0 $3,832.1 $3,523.8 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $6.0 $5.5 $3.8 $4.9 $8.8 $3.4 $5.0 Up
Personnel 6,341 6,222 6,483 6,504 6,514 7,114 7,056 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $39.8 $53.9 $53.2 $52.8 $39.2 $39.2 $39.2 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $15.7 $10.0 $36.6 $106.1 $92.1 $231.1 $228.7 Up
Human services contract budget ($000,000) $1,403.3 $1,667.5 $2,009.0 $2,626.2 $2,962.3 $2,293.0 $2,086.1 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds           “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 260>>>
Page 248  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $609.4 $609.6 
        001 - Personal Services $385.9 $404.4 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e, 2a
        003 - Head Start/Day Care $15.6 $17.7 2a
        005 - Administrative $117.9 $100.6 All
        007 - Juvenile Justice $86.2 $83.6 3a, 3b, 3c
        009 - Adoption Subsidy $3.8 $3.4 1e
Other Than Personal Services - Total $3,339.7 $3,821.4 
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $128.5 $186.3 All
        004 - Head Start/Day Care $1,548.8 $1,814.5 2a
        006 - Child Welfare $1,165.0 $1,276.0 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e
        008 - Juvenile Justice $158.5 $195.9 3a, 3b, 3c
        010 - Adoption Subsidy $251.8 $257.0 1e
        011 - Juvenile Justice - OCFS Payments $13.5 $13.3 3a
        012 - Committee on Special Education $73.5 $78.5 2a
Agency Total $3,949.1 $4,431.0 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.    2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter. 
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Rebecca Jones Gaston was appointed as Commissioner of the Administration for Children’s Services in April 2026. 
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Youth in foster care receiving Fair Futures services’ in Goal 1c was revised from 5,340 to 
4,847 to reflect the service level funded in the Fiscal 2027 budget. 
• The indicator ‘Youth in the Family Assessment Program’ in Goal 3c was designated as critical.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
• The Mayor’s Office of Contract Services’ Citywide Indicators Report: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/mocs/resources/citywide-indicator-reports.page
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/acs.
<<<PAGE 261>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES  |  Page 249
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES
Erin Dalton, Commissioner 
Reesa Henderson, Administrator
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Homeless Services 
(DHS) is the nation’s largest municipal 
homeless shelter system. DHS works 
to prevent homelessness whenever 
possible, provide safe and appropriate 
shelter to New Yorkers experiencing 
homelessness, engage and support 
unsheltered individuals, and help 
individuals and families transition 
to a place they can call home. DHS 
operates under the umbrella of the 
Department of Social Services (DSS), 
as part of an integrated management 
structure with the Human Resources 
Administration (HRA) that includes 
shared administrative supports. 
Through collaboration with nonprofit 
partners, DHS strives to meet the 
diverse needs of New Yorkers 
experiencing homelessness while 
working to advance a more equitable, 
person-focused shelter services 
system.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
In New York City and across the United States, homelessness is rooted in 
longstanding structural inequities, including the lack of affordable housing, 
systemic racism, growing income inequality, and significant challenges in 
accessing healthcare, behavioral health services, and economic opportunity. 
These challenges are further compounded by social factors such as domestic 
violence and insufficient discharge planning from institutional settings, all of 
which disproportionately impact communities of color. 
DHS is committed to advancing equitable outcomes for every New Yorker 
experiencing homelessness by ensuring access to shelter, individualized services, 
and pathways to permanent housing, regardless of their life situation. Working 
closely with HRA and other City agencies, DHS helps to prevent homelessness 
through diversion, rental assistance, and other subsidy programs to help eligible 
families and individuals avoid or exit shelter.
People of color continue to be disproportionately represented among New 
Yorkers experiencing homelessness. Black and brown New Yorkers experience 
homelessness at rates that exceed their representation in the City’s overall 
population, further underscoring the impact of ongoing disparities. Poverty is a 
strong predictor of homelessness, and Black and brown families and individuals 
are more likely to experience poverty, especially deep poverty, than their white 
counterparts. Higher incarceration rates, especially for Black men, are also 
linked to increased risk of homelessness. 1 Investment in services that strengthen 
communities, services in shelters that provide people with tools to move out of 
poverty, and the development of stable permanent housing and rental assistance 
programs, provide a foundation to counteract these historic inequities. 
1 Couloute, Lucius. (2018). Nowhere to Go: Homelessness among formerly incarcerated people. Prison Policy Initiative. https://www.
prisonpolicy. org/reports/housing.html; Remster, Brianna (2021). Homelessness among formerly incarcerated men: Patterns and predictors. 
ANNALS, AAPSS, 693, 141-157; Metraux S. and Dennis Culhane (2006). Homeless shelter use and reincarceration following prison release. 
Criminology & Public Policy, 3 (2), 139-160.
<<<PAGE 262>>>
Page 250  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Provide temporary emergency housing to individuals and families experiencing homelessness.
Goal 1a Ensure that individuals and families have access to emergency shelter and services.
Goal 1b Ensure that all temporary shelters for individuals and families experiencing homelessness are clean, safe, 
and well-run.
SERVICE 2 Coordinate and provide support services to help individuals and families experiencing 
homelessness exit shelter as quickly as possible.
Goal 2a Facilitate exits and minimize clients’ length of stay in shelters.
Goal 2b Minimize re-entries into the shelter services system.
SERVICE 3 Help individuals experiencing chronic unsheltered homelessness find stable, safe living 
situations.
Goal 3a Reduce the number of unsheltered individuals.
<<<PAGE 263>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES  |  Page 251
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Provide temporary emergency housing to individuals and families experiencing 
homelessness.
Goal 1a Ensure that individuals and families have access to emergency shelter and services.
In Fiscal 2026, on average there were 85,066 individuals in a Department of Homeless Services (DHS) shelter per day in 
New York City, a two percent decrease compared to Fiscal 2025 and the first year-over-year decrease since Fiscal 2022 
after several years of unprecedented growth as more asylum seekers arrived in New York City beginning in Fiscal 2023. 
The number of individuals in shelter decreased over the last year despite historically high entries, largely due to investments 
the Agency has made in prevention and rehousing programs, such as Homebase and the City Fighting Homelessness and 
Eviction Prevention Supplement rental subsidy known as CityFHEPS, to prevent individuals from entering shelter and to 
help those in shelter move into permanent housing more quickly.
In Fiscal 2026, the average number of adult families in shelter per day increased by 15 percent from 1,956 in Fiscal 2025 to 
2,242 in Fiscal 2026, despite a five percent decline in total associated entries. While down slightly from last year to 1,614 
adult family entries in Fiscal 2026, this remained at historically high levels and continued to drive growth in the shelter 
population. In contrast, the average number of families with children in shelter per day decreased by seven percent, from 
18,767 to 17,389. This is largely due to a 29 percent decrease in entries among this population, down from 20,425 to 
14,481, along with efforts by DHS to quickly transition families with children out of shelter into permanent housing. The 
average number of single adults in shelter per day increased by 14 percent, from 21,411 to 24,359, reflecting sustained 
levels of high new entries for this population, which increased by three percent from 30,852 to 31,663.
The share of families in shelter with children receiving public assistance increased by one percentage point in Fiscal 2026 
compared to Fiscal 2025. Continued efforts including targeting eligible families and expanded collaboration with HRA 
staff—including trainings on the AccessHRA provider portal and Cash Assistance application process—contributed to the 
increase. 
DHS continues to work to place families in the borough of their youngest child’s school. In Fiscal 2026, 62.9 percent of 
families with children entering shelter received an initial placement in the borough of their youngest school-aged child’s 
school address, a slight decrease compared to Fiscal 2025. Additionally, 81.3 percent of families with children in shelter 
resided in the borough of their youngest child’s school, similar to Fiscal 2025. The average school attendance rate for 
children in the DHS shelter system was 85.2 percent, similar to the previous year.
DHS provides access to dedicated licensed social workers in shelters for families with children. These staff conduct behavioral 
health assessments, developmental screenings for children, and provide services to help address barriers to permanent 
housing. These clinicians administered voluntary biopsychosocial screenings to 43 percent of families in shelter in Fiscal 2026, 
a four percentage-point decrease compared to Fiscal 2025, largely due to an ongoing shortage of social workers available to 
administer the screenings. DHS launched a condensed version of the biopsychosocial screening in Fiscal 2026 with the goal 
of increasing uptake among clients moving forward. DHS continues to invest in mental health services in shelter through 
the implementation of Local Law 35 of 2023, which requires mental health services at shelters with families with children.
<<<PAGE 264>>>
Page 252  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average number of individuals in shelter per day 45,563 66,195 86,321 86,403 85,066 ò ò Up Down
 ® Average number of adult families in shelters per day 1,493 2,416 2,224 1,956 2,242 ò ò Up Down
 Average number of individuals in adult families in shelters per 
day 3,130 5,119 4,749 4,210 4,861 ò ò Up Down
 ® Average number of families with children in shelters per day 8,505 12,749 18,652 18,767 17,389 ò ò Up Down
 Average number of individuals in families with children in shel -
ters per day 25,969 40,915 61,103 60,782 55,847 ò ò Up Down
 ® Average number of single adults in shelters per day 16,465 20,162 20,468 21,411 24,359 ò ò Up Down
 Adult families entering the DHS shelter services system 598 777 1,479 1,706 1,614 ò ò Up Down
 Families with children entering the DHS shelter services system 7,061 14,339 21,265 20,425 14,481 ò ò Up Down
 Single adults entering the DHS shelter services system 19,968 35,019 31,829 30,852 31,663 ò ò Up Down
Average number of families with children receiving public assistance 
(%) 77.1% 75.9% 76.8% 82.8% 83.8% 85.0% 85.0% Up *
Average school attendance rate for children in the DHS shelter 
services system (%) 82.1% 84.4% 84.3% 85.1% 85.2% * * Neutral Up
Families in shelter living in the borough of their youngest child’s 
school (%) 76.1% 77.3% 80.9% 81.4% 81.3% * * Neutral Up
Families initially placed in shelter in the borough of their youngest 
school-aged child’s school address (%) 60.8% 58.3% 62.8% 63.4% 62.9% 85.0% 85.0% Neutral Up
Families living in shelter who received biopsychosocial screenings 
from mental health clinicians (%) 72% 58% 51% 47% 43% * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Ensure that all temporary shelters for individuals and families experiencing homelessness are clean, safe, 
and well-run.
The rate of serious incidents per 1,000 residents decreased by six percent to 28.3 for single adults, by 29 percent to 9.0 
for adult families, and by four percent to 8.0 for families with children between Fiscal 2025 and Fiscal 2026. The rate of 
serious violent incidents per 1,000 residents decreased 13 percent to 2.8 for single adults and by 36 percent to 0.7 for adult 
families, and remained stable for families with children at 0.7. As the Agency continues to focus on safety, the Agency’s 
Serious Incident Unit (SIU), a centralized unit for all incident reporting that operates 24 hours a day, year-round, ensures 
accurate reporting and tracking through its quality assurance review process. 
In Fiscal 2026, the average daily cost of shelter increased by one percent for single adult facilities, by 10 percent for adult 
family facilities, and by three percent for families with children facilities. The increases across all systems were driven in 
part by cost-of-living adjustments for shelter providers, part of the City’s efforts to support nonprofit partners and human 
services workers. 
<<<PAGE 265>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES  |  Page 253
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Adult shelter inspections with safety, maintenance or cleanliness 
deficiencies per 1,000 beds 1.70 5.10 NA NA NA * * NA *
Serious incidents in the adult shelter system, per 1,000 residents 54.7 41.0 32.7 30.1 28.3 * * Down Down
Serious violent incidents in the adult shelter system, per 1,000 
residents 4.8 4.1 3.3 3.2 2.8 * * Down Down
Serious incidents in the adult family shelter system, per 1,000 
residents 21.8 13.6 12.5 12.6 9.0 * * Down Down
Serious violent incidents in the adult family shelter system, per 
1,000 residents 1.6 1.0 1.2 1.1 0.7 * * Down Down
Serious incidents in the families with children shelter system, per 
1,000 residents 16.0 10.1 8.9 8.3 8.0 * * Down Down
Serious violent incidents in the families with children shelter system, 
per 1,000 residents 1.1 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.7 * * Down Down
Cost per day for shelter facilities - Single adult facilities ($) (annual) $135.83 $145.13 $143.90 $154.76 $156.37 * * Up *
Cost per day for family shelter facilities — Adult families $172.31 $243.51 $209.16 $222.61 $244.87 * * Up *
Cost per day for family shelter facilities — Families with children $188.20 $232.40 $270.51 $270.22 $277.01 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Coordinate and provide support services to help individuals and families experiencing 
homelessness exit shelter as quickly as possible.
Goal 2a Facilitate exits and minimize clients’ length of stay in shelters.
Clients in the DHS system continue to be placed into permanent, stable housing through a variety of City, State, and federally 
funded rental assistance programs. Compared to Fiscal 2025, Fiscal 2026 total placements (subsidized and unsubsidized) 
increased seven percent to 10,540 for single adults, increased two percent to 796 for adult families, and decreased 11 
percent to 10,941 for families with children. The decrease for families with children was driven by a 47 percent decrease 
in unsubsidized placements. Subsidized placements increased or remained relatively stable across all systems. Subsidized 
placements increased by seven percent to 8,698 for single adults, decreased by less than one percent to 672 for adult 
families, and increased by two percent to 9,191 for families with children. The increases were driven primarily by the 
CityFHEPS rental subsidy. Efforts by DHS and its contracted shelter providers to expedite housing placements also helped 
drive these increases.   
The average length of stay in shelter declined for adult systems, by two percent to 372 days for single adults, and by 10 
percent to 340 days for adult families. The length of stay for families with children increased by 12 percent to 415 days 
compared to Fiscal 2025. For families with children, the decline in new entrants contributed to the increase in average 
length of stay during the reporting period—a decline in new entrants means fewer individuals with a shorter length of 
stay, which leads to a higher overall average length of stay across the system.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Single adults exiting to permanent housing 7,043 8,238 9,308 9,848 10,540 * * Up Up
— Subsidized 5,243 5,903 7,231 8,149 8,698 * * Up Up
— Unsubsidized 1,800 2,335 2,077 1,699 1,842 * * Down Up
Adult families exiting to permanent housing 504 560 534 781 796 * * Up Up
— Subsidized 443 502 398 676 672 * * Up Up
— Unsubsidized 61 58 136 105 124 * * Up Up
Families with children exiting to permanent housing 5,207 6,175 8,787 12,336 10,941 * * Up Up
— Subsidized 4,118 5,012 6,283 9,045 9,191 * * Up Up
— Unsubsidized 1,089 1,163 2,504 3,291 1,750 * * Up Up
 Average length of stay — Single adults in shelter (days) 509 412 392 378 372 ò ò Down Down
 Average length of stay — Adult families in shelters (days) 855 750 498 379 340 ò ò Down Down
 Average length of stay — Families with children in shelter (days) 534 437 354 372 415 ò ò Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 266>>>
Page 254  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2b Minimize re-entries into the shelter services system.
The overall rate of clients who returned to shelter within one year after permanent housing placements declined by one 
percentage point to 3.0 percent for families with children, increased by one percentage point to 2.0 percent for adult 
families, and was relatively stable for single adults at 5.9 percent from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026. A rise in returns among 
unsubsidized exits drove the increase for adult families, from 1.7 percent to 10.5 percent, representing 12 returns in Fiscal 
2026 compared with two in Fiscal 2025. Given the relatively low number of adult family unsubsidized exits in the prior 
year due to the smaller size of this population, the number of unsubsidized adult family returns remains very low overall. 
Returns among subsidized exits remained low and stable. The single adult return rate held steady overall but returns among 
unsubsidized exits similarly rose from 17.1 percent to 21.0 percent. For all populations, the return rates remain historically 
low and reflect the City’s continued investment in subsidized housing that generates sustained and permanent placements 
in communities.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Single adults who exited to permanent housing and returned to 
the DHS shelter services system within one year (%) 9.8% 9.5% 7.9% 6.0% 5.9% 20.0% 20.0% Down Down
 — Subsidized exits (%) 4.6% 4.3% 3.6% 3.0% 2.8% ò ò Down Down
 — Unsubsidized exits (%) 22.1% 24.3% 19.1% 17.1% 21.0% ò ò Down Down
 Adult families who exited to permanent housing and returned to 
the DHS shelter services system within one year (%) 1.9% 0.9% 0.8% 0.6% 2.0% 12.5% 12.5% Neutral Down
 — Subsidized exits (%) 0.6% 0.4% 0.3% 0.4% 0.6% ò ò Neutral Down
 — Unsubsidized exits (%) 7.4% 5.8% 5.2% 1.7% 10.5% ò ò Up Down
 Families with children who exited to permanent housing and 
returned to the DHS shelter services system within one year (%) 3.7% 3.7% 2.7% 3.7% 3.0% 12.5% 12.5% Down Down
 — Subsidized exits (%) 0.3% 0.3% 0.6% 1.0% 0.9% ò ò Up Down
 — Unsubsidized exits (%) 15.2% 16.2% 11.8% 10.2% 8.9% ò ò Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Help individuals experiencing chronic unsheltered homelessness find stable, safe living 
situations.
Goal 3a Reduce the number of unsheltered individuals.
The annual Homeless Outreach Population Estimate (HOPE) street homeless survey was conducted in March 2026 and 
estimated that there were 4,991 unsheltered individuals in New York City, an 11 percent increase compared to Fiscal 2025. 
The City conducts a survey each year to estimate this number, as do hundreds of other jurisdictions across the country 
as mandated by the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). While the HOPE survey is typically 
conducted in late January, this year’s effort was postponed until March due to historic winter weather. Ultimately, the 
average temperature on the day the survey was conducted—March 10—was nearly 60 degrees, the highest ever on the 
day of the survey and about 20 degrees above recent years. 
Through an unprecedented investment to enhance street outreach programs, the Agency has made significant progress in 
placing individuals experiencing unsheltered homelessness into permanent and transitional housing. In Fiscal 2026, DHS 
outreach workers referred over 13,032 unsheltered clients to placements in permanent housing, transitional programs, and 
other stable settings, a 20 percent increase compared to Fiscal 2025. The End of Line initiative, which provides outreach to 
individuals remaining on the trains at terminal stations, continues to contribute to the high number of referrals seen over 
the last several years. In Fiscal 2026, the average nightly number of unsheltered clients who were staying in specialized low 
barrier safe haven and stabilization beds, designed to help vulnerable clients transition from the streets into stable settings, 
increased by four percent, driven by the addition of 500 new low barrier beds that opened in Fiscal 2026. 
<<<PAGE 267>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES  |  Page 255
In addition to the End of Line initiative and efforts to place unsheltered clients in stable settings, the Agency has also made 
important progress connecting New Yorkers with severe mental illness to vital healthcare supports through the Project for 
Assistance in Transition from Homelessness (PATH) and Subway Co-response Outreach Teams (SCOUT) initiatives. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Unsheltered individuals who are estimated to be living on the 
streets, in parks, under highways, on subways, and in the public 
transportation stations in New York City 3,439 4,042 4,140 4,504 4,991 ò ò Up Down
HOME-STAT clients referred to placement into permanent housing, 
transitional housing and other settings 5,021 8,569 11,503 10,841 13,032 * * Up Up
Average number of clients in low barrier beds 2,086 2,732 3,012 3,216 3,334 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Workplace injuries reported 97 84 80 85 100 * * Neutral Down
Human services contracts NA NA NA 75 NA * * NA *
Human services contract registration within 30 days of the contract 
start date (%) NA NA NA 67% NA * * NA Up
Total dollars disbursed for human services contracts ($000,000) NA NA NA $3,583.97 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE 
In Fiscal 2026, the rate of letters and emails responded to in 14 days remained stable at 100 percent. DSS supports a 
dedicated team to follow up on and send reminder alerts to responsible programs to help ensure that responses are 
made within the required timeframe. Additionally, the DSS correspondence system auto generates daily reports with all 
letters that have outstanding responses, and the reports are monitored daily by Agency managers. 
Completed requests for interpretation increased by 10 percent from 152,595 in Fiscal 2025 to 168,571 in Fiscal 2026. 
An increase in the number of shelters using interpretation services contributed to this increase. Note that the number of 
unique requests for interpretation are not available for on-site Spanish interpretation services provided at a number of 
DHS locations. As a result, the numbers do not reflect the full scope of interpretation services provided by DHS. Average 
wait time to speak with a customer service agent increased by approximately 10 minutes in Fiscal 2026 compared to 
Fiscal 2025, in part driven by two months during the year that saw higher intake numbers. The Agency is implementing 
technology upgrades to improve wait times moving forward.
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 47,504 84,020 107,083 152,595 168,571 * * Up *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 97% 97% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
Average wait time to speak with a customer service agent (minutes) 70 96 105 74 84 * * Neutral Down
CORE facility rating 90 NA 97 97 87 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 268>>>
Page 256  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $2,732.8 $3,540.4 $3,892.2 $4,306.4 $4,480.3 $4,420.9 $4,240.1 Up
Personnel 1,849 1,797 1,811 1,741 1,620 2,206 1,940 Down
Overtime paid ($000,000) $19.6 $26.3 $28.7 $20.4 $13.8 $13.8 $13.8 Neutral
Capital commitments ($000,000) $26.9 $14.7 $33.4 $45.1 $39.5 $134.9 $118.3 Up
Human services contract budget ($000,000) $2,420.0 $3,102.4 $3,332.6 $3,886.9 $4,081.3 $3,816.1 $3,926.3 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $162.0 $174.9
        100 - Shelter Intake and Program $120.6 $124.8 All
        101 - Administration $31.3 $37.3 All
        102 - Street Programs $10.1 $12.9 3a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $4,144.4 $4,305.4
        200 - Shelter Intake and Program $3,757.3 $3,880.2 All
        201 - Administration $30.2 $34.2 All
        202 - Street Programs $356.8 $391.0 3a
Agency Total $4,306.4 $4,480.3
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.   
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Erin Dalton was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Social Services in February  2026.
• Reesa Henderson was appointed as Administrator of the Department of Homeless Services in July 2026.
• The Fiscal 2025 figure for ‘Average number of individuals in adult families in shelters per day)’ in Goal 1a was updated 
from 4,209 to 4,210 after a review of historical data.
• The Fiscal 2025 figure for ‘Average number of individuals in families with children in shelters per day’ in Goal 1a was 
updated from 60,805 to 60,782 after a review of historical data.
• In order to give an accurate picture of the trend compared to the prior years, starting in Fiscal 2023, asylum seekers 
in the families with children census were excluded from ‘Families with children receiving public assistance’ in Goal 1a. 
Asylum seekers are in various stages of status adjustment that could impact eligibility for public benefits. 
• The indicator ‘Adult shelter inspections with safety, maintenance or cleanliness deficiencies per 1,000 beds’ in Goal 1b 
is unavailable for Fiscal 2024 through Fiscal 2026 due to data processing delays.
<<<PAGE 269>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES  |  Page 257
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Stats & Reports:  
http://www1.nyc.gov/site/dhs/about/stats-and-reports.page
• DHS Daily Report, Including Census & Intake Statistics: 
http://www1.nyc.gov/assets/dhs/downloads/pdf/dailyreport.pdf 
• Block by Block: The Housing Plan for a New Era: 
https://www.nyc.gov/content/dam/nycgov/nyc-main/pdf/2026/block-by-block-report.pdf
• Emergency Executive Order 2—Action Plan:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/dam/nycgov/mayors-office/downloads/pdf/press-releases/2026/2-19-eeo2-public-plan.
pdf
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/dhs.
<<<PAGE 270>>>
Page 258  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 271>>>
DEPARTMENT FOR  
THE AGING Dr. Lisa Scott-McKenzie, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT FOR THE AGING  |  Page 259
 
WHAT WE DO
The Department for the Aging 
(DFTA, also known as NYC Aging), 
promotes, administers, and 
coordinates the development and 
provision of services for older New 
Yorkers to help them maintain 
independence and participation in 
their communities. NYC Aging’s 
vision is to promote and support 
inclusive, safe, affordable, and 
healthy aging for all New Yorkers. 
During Fiscal 2026, NYC Aging 
served approximately 210,146 older 
New Yorkers. NYC Aging supports 
a broad range of services, both 
directly and through approximately 
320 human services contracts. 
The Agency also administers 
discretionary funds received from 
the New York City Council, in 
addition to federal, State and City 
funding, as well as other grants for 
special initiatives and programming.
NYC Aging remains steadfast 
in its responsibility to preserve 
the dignity and quality of life for 
approximately 1.8 million diverse 
older New Yorkers by eliminating 
food insecurity, providing pathways 
to affordable and stable housing, 
enhancing access to quality 
healthcare services, and protecting 
older New Yorkers from harm and 
abuse with the ultimate goal of 
a more age-friendly city in which 
older adults can age gracefully with 
dignity and respect.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
Older adults age 60 and older represent more than one-fifth of the City’s population. 
This growing population reflects the extraordinary ethnic, cultural, linguistic, and 
economic diversity that defines New York City. NYC Aging is committed to ensuring that 
older New Yorkers—regardless of race, religion, ethnicity, language, income, disability, 
gender identity, sexual orientation, neighborhood of residence, or immigration status—
have equitable access to the services, supports, and opportunities needed to age with 
dignity, independence, and purpose.
Equity is a guiding principle in how NYC Aging designs programs, allocates resources, 
and delivers services. Working alongside a broad network of community-based 
organizations, Community Boards, elected officials, and local leaders in every borough, 
NYC Aging builds trusted partnerships that strengthen community connections and 
ensure services are responsive to the unique needs and priorities of the populations 
and neighborhoods it serves.
The Agency is particularly committed to reducing disparities in access to services 
among historically underserved populations, including people of color, immigrants, 
individuals with limited English proficiency, low-income older adults, and others who 
have traditionally faced barriers to care and support. To achieve this, NYC Aging is 
working to expand language access, strengthen culturally responsive programming, 
enhance outreach and engagement strategies, and develop community partnerships 
that reflect the diversity of New York City’s older adult population. NYC Aging’s 
commitment to equity is reflected across its core programs and services, including Older 
Adult Centers, Home Delivered Meals, the Geriatric Mental Health (GMH) program, 
and Aging Connect, the Agency’s centralized information and referral call center. 
Older Adult Centers and Home-Delivered Meals provide culturally responsive services 
that reflect the needs and preferences of the communities they serve. GMH delivers 
linguistically and culturally competent care through a diverse network of multilingual 
and multicultural providers. Aging Connect ensures broad access to information, 
referrals, and resources by communicating in multiple languages and utilizing Language 
Line interpretation services as needed to communicate in virtually any language. NYC 
Aging is committed to delivering measurable improvements in equity by aligning 
investments with community needs, expanding evidence-based and high-impact service 
models, and continuously evaluating to ensure resources are directed where they can 
have the greatest impact.
Additionally, NYC Aging promotes equity in procurement through its competitive 
contracting process, which requires prospective providers to demonstrate how they 
will deliver culturally and linguistically responsive services, recruit and retain a diverse 
workforce, conduct meaningful outreach to underrepresented populations, and 
develop programming that reflects the needs and preferences of the communities 
they serve. These expectations help ensure that City-funded services remain accessible, 
inclusive, and responsive to all older New Yorkers.
By embedding equity into policy, planning, partnerships, procurement, workforce 
development, and service delivery, NYC Aging is working to create a city where every 
older adult has the opportunity to thrive, remain connected to their community, and 
age with dignity, health, and security.
<<<PAGE 272>>>
Page 260  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Provide community-based services to older New Yorkers.
Goal 1a Increase utilization of Older Adult Centers.
Goal 1b Provide community-based nutrition opportunities to older New Yorkers.
Goal 1c Provide services and supports to older New Yorkers aging in place.
Goal 1d Provide mental health services and supports to older New Yorkers.
SERVICE 2 Provide supportive services to homebound older New Yorkers and their caregivers.
Goal 2a Provide supportive services to homebound older New Yorkers.
Goal 2b Provide supportive services to caregivers.
<<<PAGE 273>>>
DEPARTMENT FOR THE AGING  |  Page 261
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Provide community-based services to older New Yorkers.
Goal 1a Increase utilization of Older Adult Centers.
NYC Aging’s Older Adult Centers (OACs) provide opportunities for older New Yorkers to access nutrition and health services, 
recreation, socialization, volunteerism, and education. During Fiscal 2026, NYC Aging’s OACs and affiliated sites served 
149,166 older New Yorkers and an average of 26,838 participants attended OACs daily in Fiscal 2026, both comparable 
to the levels served in Fiscal 2025.
NYC Aging and its providers continue to offer the option of virtual programming to older New Yorkers who would like to 
join in on activities from home or other locations remotely. In Fiscal 2026, 34,440 participants attended virtual and hybrid 
programs, a two percent decrease from the prior year. While virtual programs expand access for some, in-person activities 
remain essential for building community, reducing loneliness, and ensuring equitable access to services and supports for 
many older adults. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Older Adult Center participants 92,600 145,747 150,314 148,977 149,166 148,247 149,166 Up Up
® Older Adult Center average daily participants 18,967 24,545 26,263 27,305 26,838 28,000 26,838 Up Up
Older Adult Center virtual and hybrid program clients 61,351 34,322 34,862 35,200 34,440 33,440 33,440 Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Provide community-based nutrition opportunities to older New Yorkers.
NYC Aging provides older New Yorkers access to meals at Older Adult Centers through congregate meals on site, Grab and 
Go meals for at home consumption, and Meals on Wheels for OAC participants who might be temporarily homebound. 
There were 6,340,477 meals served to 118,712 older New Yorkers in Fiscal 2026, a two percent decrease in meals served 
and an over two percent increase in participants served. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Older Adult Center total meals 3,004,508 5,548,305 6,131,215 6,486,806 6,340,477 8,338,069 8,338,069 Up *
® Older Adult Center meal participants 89,230 109,548 117,457 115,859 118,712 121,000 118,712 Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 274>>>
Page 262  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1c Provide services and supports to older New Yorkers aging in place.
One way that NYC Aging promotes aging in place is by supporting Naturally Occurring Retirement Communities (NORCs), 
which are multi-age housing developments or neighborhoods that were not originally built for older adults but are now 
home to a significant number of older New Yorkers. Older residents of many of the City’s NORCs can access health and 
social services, including case management services, educational activities, trips, and volunteer opportunities, in their own 
building or building complex. In Fiscal 2026, NYC Aging served 16,826 older adults residing in NYC Aging-funded NORCs, 
stable from the previous year.
NYC Aging’s Senior Community Services Employment Program (SCSEP) provides training opportunities to older adults 
who are seeking re-employment in the current job market. This program has built partnerships with community-based 
organizations, government agencies, and nonprofit entities, which collaborate in the enhancement of skills for older adults. 
In Fiscal 2026, 345 participants received training, subsidized, and/or unsubsidized employment opportunities, seven percent 
fewer than Fiscal 2025 due to a pause in services caused by delays in federal funding, but exceeding the target of 312. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Naturally Occurring Retirement Communities participants 17,849 19,085 17,813 16,904 16,826 17,650 17,181 Neutral *
 Senior Community Services Employment Program participants 259 399 377 372 345 312 400 Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1d Provide mental health services and supports to older New Yorkers.
Older adults have high rates of late-onset mental health conditions, yet low rates of assessment and treatment, according 
to the Mayor’s Office of Community Mental Health (OCMH). NYC Aging provides mental health support to older New 
Yorkers through NYC Aging’s Geriatric Mental Health Initiative (GMH), which was launched at the beginning of Fiscal 2016. 
GMH places licensed mental health clinicians in Older Adult Centers to lead engagement sessions, continuously engage 
participants to decrease barriers to mental health treatment, and have open conversations with older adults about a variety 
of mental health symptoms. Clinicians screen participants for depression and other mental health conditions, provide on-
site counseling, and provide outside referrals when needed. All New Yorkers who are 60 and older are eligible to receive 
services and do not have to be a registered participant of an Older Adult Center to see a mental health professional. Before 
this initiative, many older adults went without ready access to mental health support. In Fiscal 2025, additional GMH sites 
received their licenses to operate satellite mental health clinics, increasing the number of sites where clinical services were 
provided and the number of older adults who were able to utilize these services. During Fiscal 2026, 1,733 older adults 
received clinical services to improve their mental health, 22 percent more than last year, due to increased capacity from 
clinics that opened in Fiscal 2025. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Clients who received Geriatric Mental Health clinical services 781 879 857 1,419 1,733 1,052 1,733 Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 275>>>
DEPARTMENT FOR THE AGING  |  Page 263
SERVICE 2 Provide supportive services to homebound older New Yorkers and their caregivers.
Goal 2a Provide supportive services to homebound older New Yorkers.
NYC Aging helps vulnerable older New Yorkers who are homebound and unable to prepare meals to maintain or improve 
their nutritional health through the Home Delivered Meals program. Meals may also be provided to the client’s spouse or 
domestic partner regardless of age or physical condition, and disabled individuals under 60 years of age living in the same 
household as the client. During Fiscal 2026, NYC Aging’s Home Delivered Meal providers served 24,821 homebound older 
New Yorkers 4,068,777 meals, a four percent increase in both clients and meals served over Fiscal 2025, due to expanded 
eligibility for the service. 
NYC Aging supports homebound older New Yorkers through its Case Management and Home Care programs. Case 
Management services involve comprehensive assessments to identify the needs and strengths of older persons with 
functional impairments, planning with these clients on how to meet their needs, and building on their identified strengths 
and capacities, as well as arranging and coordinating services and resources on their behalf including Home Care and 
Home Delivered Meals. In Fiscal 2026, 32,890 older New Yorkers received 532,927 hours of Case Management services, 
with service hours remaining relatively stable and the number of clients increasing two percent from the previous year.
Home Care services support older New Yorkers who have unmet needs in activities of daily living and do not qualify for 
Medicaid or other ongoing insurance-funded home care. The goal of this program is to maintain seniors safely at home. 
Home Care clients receive a variety of services including assistance with bathing, dressing, grooming, toileting, transferring 
from a bed to chair and/or to a wheelchair, walking and eating. They are aided with housekeeping tasks, including meal 
preparation, assistance with dusting and vacuuming, light cleaning of the kitchen, bedroom, and bathroom, as well as 
shopping or other essential errands like laundering, ironing, and mending. During Fiscal 2026, 3,101 homebound older 
New Yorkers received 1,296,347 hours of Home Care services, stable from last year. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
® Home Delivered Meals served 4,287,681 4,609,919 4,252,731 3,900,881 4,068,777 4,740,339 4,241,231 Down Up
® Home Delivered Meals clients 26,852 27,547 24,595 23,883 24,821 24,000 24,821 Down *
Case Management hours 526,293 532,795 516,005 531,570 532,927 513,558 513,558 Neutral Up
® Case Management clients 39,163 34,767 31,680 32,166 32,890 32,000 32,890 Down *
 Home Care hours 1,197,483 1,311,169 1,318,076 1,279,437 1,296,347 1,372,549 1,372,549 Neutral Up
 ® Home Care clients 3,296 3,452 3,422 3,121 3,101 3,400 3,101 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Provide supportive services to caregivers.
NYC Aging’s contracted caregiver providers assist and support New York City caregivers who are caring for an older person, 
individuals with dementia, or disabled adults ages 18 to 59, as well as adults 55 and older that may be grandparents 
or other kinship caregivers to children. Caregiver services include assistance in applying for benefits and entitlements, 
referrals, support groups and training, counseling, and respite in or out of the home. During Fiscal 2026, 3,336 caregivers 
received direct services through NYC Aging’s contracted programs, 17 percent fewer than the previous fiscal year due to 
staff vacancies impacting program utilization. Caregiver programs focused on bringing on more clients and this effort was 
supported by a new media campaign that was launched in March 2026 to increase awareness and participation. In the 
winter of 2025, a Request for Proposals for caregiver program services was released and new contracts were awarded with 
an emphasis on enhancing direct services staff, outreach capacity, and wrap-around supports such as case management 
and transportation to reach and serve more caregivers. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Caregiver persons served 5,349 5,215 5,439 4,003 3,336 4,800 7,225 Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 276>>>
Page 264  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Human services contracts NA NA NA 171 NA * * NA *
Human services contract registration within 30 days of the contract 
start date (%) NA NA NA 93% NA * * NA Up
Total dollars disbursed for human services contracts ($000,000) NA NA NA $440.84 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE 
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 2,903 3,050 2,219 1,725 2,314 2,331 2,086 Down *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 77.6% 91.9% 98.0% 99.7% 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Up Up
CORE facility rating 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Meeting time to first action – Missed delivery (% within 14 days) 100% 99% 99% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral *
Meeting time to first action – Housing (% within 14 days) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral Up
Meeting time to first action – General aging information (% within 
14 days) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral Up
Meeting time to first action – Benefits and entitlements (% within 
14 days) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $502.6 $494.7 $509.4 $557.1 $609.8 $620.2 $635.8 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $2.4 $7.1 $4.0 $1.5 $1.3 $1.0 $1.0 Up
Personnel 304 312 326 329 320 383 371 Down
Overtime paid ($000) $26 $36 $47 $57 $0 $0 $0 Down
Capital commitments ($000,000) $1.3 $5.4 $4.4 -$0.3 $9.2 $43.1 $10.6 Down
Human services contract budget ($000,000) $445.4 $440.5 $450.6 $495.9 $521.1 $513.0 $529.0 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 277>>>
DEPARTMENT FOR THE AGING  |  Page 265
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $31.9 $36.0 
        001 - Executive and Administrative Management $19.1 $18.8 All
        002 - Community Programs $10.7 $7.5 All
        006 - In-Home Services $2.1 $3.8 2a
        008 - Community Services 4 NA $5.9 All
Other Than Personal Services - Total $525.2 $573.8 
        003 - Out-of-Home Services $412.8 $87.1 All
        004 - Executive and Administrative Management $4.5 $3.3 All
        005 - In-Home Services $107.9 $123.6 2a
        007 - Centers and Home Delivered Meals $0.0 $359.8 1b, 2a
Agency Total $557.1 $609.8 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter. 4This UA originated in Fiscal 2026. “NA” Not Available
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Dr. Lisa Scott-McKenzie was appointed as Commissioner of NYC Aging in February 2026. 
• In November of 2025, NYC Aging fully transitioned to a new client management system. Previously reported Fiscal 
2025 service level values have been revised to reflect complete values; observed decreases in clients are the result of 
ongoing data cleaning initiatives:
 − In Goal 1a, ‘Older Adult Center participants’ was revised from 148,680 to 148,977, ‘Older Adult Center average 
daily participants’ was revised from 27,456 to 27,305 and ‘Older Adult Center virtual and hybrid program clients’ 
was revised from 34,078 to 35,200.
 − In Goal 1b, ‘Older Adult Center total meals’ was revised from 6,452,188 to 6,486,806 and ‘Older Adult Center meal 
participants’ was revised from 115,508 to 115,859.
 − In Goal 2a, ‘Home Delivered Meals served’ was revised from 3,827,579 to 3,900,881; ‘Home Delivered Meals 
clients’ was revised from 23,935 to 23,883; ‘Home Care hours’ was revised from 1,278,931 to 1,279,437; ‘Case 
Management hours’ was revised from 535,773 to 531,570 (due to the exclusion of service types that are not 
counted as hours, but as items); and ‘Case Management clients’ was revised from 31,787 to 32,166.
• Fiscal 2026 and Fiscal 2027 targets have been newly established for the following indicators: 
 − ‘Older Adult Center participants’
 − ‘Older Adult Center virtual and hybrid program clients’
 − ‘Completed requests for interpretation’
 − ‘Letters responded to within 14 days (%)’
 − ‘E-mails responded to within 14 days (%)’
<<<PAGE 278>>>
Page 266  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
 − ‘CORE facility rating’
 − ‘Meeting time to first action – Missed delivery (% within 14 days)’
 − ‘Meeting time to first action – Housing (% within 14 days)’
 − ‘Meeting time to first action – General aging information (% within 14 days)’
 − ‘Meeting time to first action – Benefits and entitlements (% within 14 days)’
• Fiscal 2027 targets for the following indicators have been updated based on an evaluation of recent data and plans for 
future program levels: 
 − ‘Older Adult Center average daily participants’ was revised from 28,000 to 26,838.
 − ‘Older Adult Center meal participants’ was revised from 121,000 to 118,712.
 − ‘Naturally Occurring Retirement Communities participants’ was revised from 17,650 to 17,181.
 − ‘Senior Community Services Employment Program participants’ was revised from 312 to 400.
 − ‘Clients who received Geriatric Mental Health clinical services’ was revised from 1,052 to 1,733.
 − ‘Home Delivered Meals served’ was revised from 4,740,339 to 4,241,231.
 − ‘Home Delivered Meals clients’ was revised from 24,000 to 24,821.
 − ‘Case Management clients’ was revised from 32,000 to 32,890.
 − ‘Home Care clients’ was revised from 3,400 to 3,101.
 − ‘Caregiver persons served’ was revised from 4,800 to 7,225.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• NYC Aging Website:  
http://www.nyc.gov/aging
• Call NYC Aging’s Aging Connect Telephone Hotline: 
(212) AGING NYC (212-244-6469)
• X (Formerly Twitter):  
https://x.com/NYCAging (#AgingConnected)
• Older New Yorkers and their caregivers can also dial 311 or go to www.nyc.gov/31 1 for information and assistance, 
or search for services and activities at www.nyc.gov/site/dfta/services/find-help.page.
• The Mayor’s Office of Contract Services’ Citywide Indicators Report:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/mocs/resources/citywide-indicator-reports.page
<<<PAGE 279>>>
Building Human 
Potential
<<<PAGE 280>>>
Building Human 
Potential
Department of 
Education p 269
School Construction 
Authority p 291
Department of Youth 
and Community 
Development p 295
Public  
Libraries p 305
Department of Small 
Business Services p 319
City University of  
New York p 311
Department of  
Veterans’ Services p 325
<<<PAGE 281>>>
DEPARTMENT OF  
EDUCATION Kamar H. Samuels, Chancellor
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 269
WHAT WE DO
As the nation’s largest public 
school system, the Department of 
Education (DOE), also referred to 
as New York City Public Schools 
(NYCPS), provides primary and 
secondary education to nearly 
one million students, from early 
childhood through grade 12. NYCPS 
employs over 81,000 teachers 
in approximately 1,600 schools 
in 32 school districts and District 
75. NYCPS prepares its students 
to meet grade-level standards in 
reading, writing, and math, with the 
goal of ensuring that all students 
graduate with the knowledge, skills, 
and confidence to succeed in their 
careers and communities. 
The School Construction Authority 
(SCA), reported separately, 
coordinates the development of 
NYCPS’s Five-Year Capital Plan, 
selects and acquires sites for new 
schools, leases buildings for schools, 
and supervises conversion of 
administrative space for classroom 
use.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
To guide all students toward civically engaged and fulfilling careers, NYCPS applies an 
equity lens to ensure that all students, families, and communities receive the supports 
they need to thrive. Building on its work to transform literacy and math instruction and 
expand college and career pathways, NYCPS further commits to fostering safe learning 
environments, rigorous and high-quality academics, and truly integrated schools that reflect 
the rich diversity of New York City—including through culturally responsive classrooms, 
access to accelerated coursework, exposure to a multitude of perspectives, and teaching 
that addresses the strengths and needs of all learners, including students with disabilities, 
English Language Learners, and students in temporary housing and foster care. These 
commitments underpin several key initiatives:
• The 3-K for All initiative provides New York City families with free, full-day early 
childhood education that supports critical brain development and social skills for three-
year-olds while delivering substantial financial relief from private child care costs. In 
the 2026–2027 School Year, the program will expand by 2,000 seats across 56 zip 
codes, prioritizing historically underserved neighborhoods to reduce child care costs 
and stabilize enrollment. In January 2026, the City announced a new 2-K initiative 
offering free child care for two-year-olds, with 2,000 seats planned for its launch in 
the 2026–2027 School Year.
• NYC Reads, launched in the 2023–2024 School Year, is one of the most ambitious 
literacy improvement efforts in the country, rooted in the Science of Reading and aimed 
at ensuring all NYCPS students become thriving readers and writers through one of 
three pre-approved, evidence-based curricula. It represents a systemwide investment 
in instruction, support, and community engagement. After successful implementation 
in pre-kindergarten and elementary schools, NYCPS expanded NYC Reads to middle 
schools in the 2025–2026 School Year while strengthening supports for existing 
schools. In the 2026–2027 School Year, it will expand to additional middle school 
districts and begin its first phase of high school expansion in four districts, backed by 
continued job-embedded coaching and professional development.
• NYC Solves, launched in the 2023–2024 School Year, aims to disrupt inequities in math 
education by standardizing research-based curricula citywide, giving every student 
access to a more level playing field. Following its initial launch in high schools citywide 
and middle schools in nine districts, NYC Solves expanded to middle schools in six 
additional districts in the 2025–2026 School Year. In the 2026–2027 School Year, it 
will expand to more middle school districts and begin its first phase of elementary 
school expansion in four districts, supported by the same coaching and professional 
development model as NYC Reads.
• FutureReadyNYC (FRNYC) prepares students for post-secondary success through career-
connected pathways, apprenticeships, internships, and early college opportunities in 
fields like technology, healthcare, education, human and social services, and HVAC/
decarbonization. Since Fiscal 2022, students have earned over $30 million through work-
based learning opportunities. More than 75,000 9th–12th graders have completed 
career exploration coursework, and over 15,000 10th–12th graders have enrolled 
in labor market-aligned coursework. FRNYC students show increased engagement, 
reflected in lower chronic absenteeism, higher attendance, and improved GPAs. As 
of Fiscal 2026, 190 NYCPS high schools—about one in three—participate in FRNYC.
<<<PAGE 282>>>
Page 270  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Educate New York City’s children to become productive, engaged adults.
Goal 1a Improve academic achievement. 
Goal 1b Promote parental involvement in education. 
Goal 1c Improve the ability of English Language Learners to learn English and improve academic progress. 
Goal 1d Improve the ability of students with disabilities to progress academically and socially. 
Goal 1e Increase the percentage of high school graduates enrolling in post-secondary education or training. 
Goal 1f Increase the percentage of elementary, middle and high school students taking coursework that prepares 
them for future success. 
SERVICE 2 Deliver early childhood education services. 
Goal 2a Ensure access to quality early child care services in communities of need and achieve maximum capacity. 
Goal 2b Ensure access to quality 3-K services in communities of need and achieve maximum capacity.
Goal 2c Ensure access to quality Pre-K services in communities of need and achieve maximum capacity.
Goal 2d Ensure access to quality School Day and Year programming in communities of need and achieve maximum 
capacity.
Goal 2e Ensure access to quality Extended Day and Year programming in communities of need and achieve maximum 
capacity.
Goal 2f Ensure access to quality CTL Transitional programming in communities of need and achieve maximum capacity.
SERVICE 3 Coordinate with NYPD to maintain safe schools.
Goal 3a Ensure a safe and secure learning environment for all students and staff.
SERVICE 4 Provide essential, non-academic services to all eligible New York City students in public, charter, 
and non-public schools.
Goal 4a Work with SCA to design, construct, modernize and repair durable, functional and attractive educational 
facilities, on schedule and within budget.
Goal 4b Ensure safe and reliable bus transportation to and from school.
Goal 4c Provide healthy, culturally inclusive, and nutritious meals to students.
<<<PAGE 283>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 271
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Educate New York City’s children to become productive, engaged adults.
Goal 1a Improve academic achievement. 
Overall student enrollment decreased two percent from 1,054,300 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 1,035,500 in the 
2025–2026 School Year. District school enrollment declined from 906,200 to 884,600 while charter school enrollment 
increased from 148,100 to 150,900.
Attendance rates decreased slightly across all categories between the 2024–2025 School Year and the 2025–2026 School 
Year—overall average daily attendance decreased from 89.8 percent to 89.5 percent, elementary and middle school 
attendance decreased from 91.1 percent to 90.9 percent, and high school attendance decreased from 87.1 percent to 
86.5 percent. 
For English Language Arts, the percent of students in grades 3 to 8 below standards increased four percentage points from 
20.3 percent in the 2024–2025 School Year to 24.3 percent in the 2025–2026 School Year, students meeting or exceeding 
standards decreased six percentage points from 56.3 percent to 50.3 percent, and students progressing into a higher level 
decreased nearly 18 percentage points from 42.7 percent to 24.9 percent. These declines mirror trends in other school 
districts across New York State. Given the unprecedented year-to-year fluctuations in student proficiency and concerns over 
major scoring gains and losses across a short period of time, NYCPS has begun a deeper analysis of the results. For math, 
the percent of students in grades 3 to 8 below standards increased just over half a percentage point from 20.5 percent to 
21.1 percent, students meeting or exceeding standards remained mostly stable at 57.0 percent, and students progressing 
into a higher level decreased four percentage points from 31.2 percent to 27.2 percent.
From the 2024–2025 School Year to the 2025–2026 School Year, average class size decreased across all grade bands 
and the proportion of classes subject to the 2023 New York State class size law at or below mandated class size caps 
increased across all grade bands. For Kindergarten to Grade 3, average class size decreased from 21.9 to 19.6 and State 
law compliance increased from 38 percent to 67 percent. For Grades 4 to 5, average class size decreased from 23.7 to 
22.0 and compliance increased from 46 percent to 69 percent. For Grades 6 to 8, average class size decreased from 25.5 
to 24.0 and compliance increased from 37 percent to 57 percent. For Grades 9 to 12, average class size decreased from 
25.8 to 24.5 and compliance increased from 48 percent to 64 percent. For schools in the highest Economic Need Index 
quartile, average class size decreased from 22.0 to 20.6 and compliance increased from 67 percent to 78 percent. Overall 
compliance with the class size law increased from 46 percent in the 2024–2025 School Year to 64 percent in the 2025–2026 
School Year, surpassing the 60 percent compliance mandated by the end of the 2025–2026 School Year. These counts 
reflect the number of non-exempted classes. Exemptions were determined in collaboration with the United Federation of 
Teachers (UFT) and the Council for School Supervisors and Administrators (CSA), in alignment with the law, and granted 
to schools meeting criteria outlined within the July 2025 Class Size Reduction Plan. The significant increase in compliance 
is the direct result of work undertaken to invest over $450 million in schools, which directly funded around 3,700 teaching 
positions, allowing for progress in class size reduction across all grade bands.
<<<PAGE 284>>>
Page 272  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Student enrollment as of October 31 in grades 3-K to 12 (000) 1,058.9 1,047.9 1,058.1 1,054.3 1,035.5 * * Neutral *
– District schools (000) 919.1 907.0 912.1 906.2 884.6 * * Neutral *
– Charter schools (000) 139.8 140.9 146.0 148.1 150.9 * * Neutral *
 Average daily attendance (%) 88.1% 89.4% 89.6% 89.8% 89.5% 92.0% 92.0% Neutral Up
– Elementary/middle (%) 89.7% 90.5% 90.8% 91.1% 90.9% 92.1% 92.1% Neutral Up
– High school (%) 84.6% 86.8% 87.0% 87.1% 86.5% 87.7% 87.7% Neutral Up
Students chronically absent (%) 40.7% 36.2% 34.8% 33.3% 33.5% 29.0% 29.0% Down Down
Students in grades 3 to 8 below standards – English Language Arts (%) 22.5% 22.9% 26.1% 20.3% 24.3% 19.3% 23.3% Neutral Down
– Math (%) 38.5% 26.0% 22.8% 20.5% 21.1% 19.5% 21.0% Down Down
 ® Students in grades 3 to 8 meeting or exceeding standards – Eng -
lish Language Arts (%) 49.0% 51.7% 49.1% 56.3% 50.3% 57.3% 51.3% Neutral Up
 ® – Math (%) 37.9% 49.9% 53.4% 56.9% 57.0% 58.0% 57.9% Up Up
Students in grades 3 to 8 progressing into a higher level – English 
Language Arts (%) NA 34.4% 30.0% 42.7% 24.9% * * NA Up
– Math (%) NA 39.7% 31.2% 31.2% 27.2% * * NA Up
Students in grades 1 to 8 promoted to the next grade level (%) 97.9% 99.0% 99.0% 99.1% 99.1% * * Neutral Up
Students with a 65 to 100 passing score on the Regents Examination – 
English (%) 73.7% 72.7% 74.5% 72.1% NA 73.1% 73.1% NA Up
– History (%) 74.8% 71.8% 75.5% 75.0% NA 76.0% 77.0% NA Up
– Science (%) 65.8% 55.9% 57.1% 54.2% NA 55.0% 56.0% NA Up
– Math (%) 58.2% 46.2% 54.4% 53.9% NA 55.0% 56.0% NA Up
 ® Students in cohort graduating from high school in 4 years (%) 83.7% 83.7% 83.3% 81.2% NA 84.0% 82.2% NA Up
 Students in cohort graduating from high school in 6 years (%) 85.1% 86.7% 87.5% 87.5% NA ñ ñ NA Up
 Students in cohort dropping out from high school in 4 years (%) 5.4% 5.4% 4.7% 5.2% NA 4.0% 4.2% NA Down
Students in cohort dropping out from high school in 6 years (%) 9.7% 8.6% 8.1% 8.1% NA * * NA Down
Average class size – Kindergarten to Grade 3 21.2 22.1 22.6 21.9 19.6 * * Neutral Down
– Grades 4 to 5 22.5 23.7 24.2 23.7 22.0 * * Neutral Down
– Grades 6 to 8 NA NA 26.0 25.5 24.0 * * NA Down
– Grades 6 to 8 core courses 24.6 24.9 24.9 NA NA * * NA Down
– Grades 9 to 12 NA NA 26.1 25.8 24.5 * * NA Down
– Grades 9 to 12 core courses 25.0 23.7 23.7 NA NA * * NA Down
 Classes subject to class size law at or below caps NA 42% 40% 46% 64% 60% 70% NA Up
 – Kindergarten to Grade 3 (%) NA 35% 31% 38% 67% ñ ñ NA Up
 – Grades 4 to 5 (%) NA 46% 42% 46% 69% ñ ñ NA Up
 – Grades 6 to 8 (%) NA 34% 33% 37% 57% ñ ñ NA Up
 – Grades 9 to 12 (%) NA 47% 45% 48% 64% ñ ñ NA Up
Average class size in highest Economic Need Index quartile of schools NA 20.9 22.4 22.0 20.6 * * NA Down
Classes subject to class size law at or below caps in highest Economic 
Need Index quartile of schools (%) NA 64% 62% 67% 78% * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 285>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 273
Goal 1b Promote parental involvement in education. 
Parent Coordinators empower family involvement in the school community through outreach and planning, create a 
welcoming school environment for parents, support school principals in addressing parents’ concerns, and guide parent 
leadership in schools. They offer virtual workshops via video conferencing and use social media, e-newsletters, and school 
websites to share parent engagement opportunities. From the 2024–2025 School Year to the 2025–2026 School Year, phone 
calls responded to by parent coordinator or parent engagement designee increased nine percent, in-person consultations 
with parents increased 12 percent, and parents attending parent coordinator workshops decreased six percent. The number 
of school-based workshops offered to parents increased from 53,000 to 54,000 over the reporting period. Additionally, 
parents attending Fall and Spring Parent-Teacher Conferences decreased slightly from 1,247,000 to 1,219,000 after several 
years of sustained increases from 934,000 in the 2021–2022 School Year.
The annual NYC School Survey polls families, teachers, staff, and students to support dialogue among all members of school 
communities about how to make their school a better place to learn. School leaders use the feedback from the survey 
to reflect and improve schools and programs. In the 2025–2026 School Year, the survey captured that family sentiment 
regarding school communication and belonging remained constant or improved slightly, with affirmative responses for 
several key questions ranging from 93 percent to 97 percent.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Phone calls responded to by parent coordinator or parent engage -
ment designee (000) 11,613 16,809 23,555 30,918 33,827 10,000 35,000 Up Up
In-person consultations with parents by parent coordinators or par -
ent engagement designee (000) 1,058 1,358 1,831 2,021 2,264 1,400 1,400 Up Up
School-based workshops offered to parents (000) 50 38 45 53 54 60 60 Up Up
Parents attending parent coordinator workshops (000) 723 922 1,107 1,382 1,293 1,000 1,000 Up Up
Parents attending Fall and Spring Parent-Teacher Conferences (000) 934 1,023 1,163 1,247 1,219 2,000 2,000 Up Up
 Families reporting that school staff regularly communicate with 
them about helping their children learn (%) 91% 90% 91% 92% 93% 95% 95% Neutral *
Families reporting that their child’s school communicates in a lan -
guage that they can understand (%) 97% 97% 97% 97% 97% 95% 97% Neutral *
Families reporting that they are greeted warmly when they call or 
visit the school (%) 96% 96% 96% 97% 97% 95% 97% Neutral *
Families reporting that their child belongs at this school (%) 96% 95% 95% 96% 96% 95% 96% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 286>>>
Page 274  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1c Improve the ability of English Language Learners to learn English and improve academic progress. 
Students enrolled as English Language Learners (ELL) decreased 13 percent from 168,000 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 
146,000 in the 2025–2026 School Year. ELL enrollment has now declined for two consecutive school years after peaking 
at 174,000 in the 2023–2024 School Year, following steady growth from 149,000 in the 2021–2022 School Year.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Students enrolled as English Language Learners (ELL) (000) 149 160 174 168 146 * * Neutral *
English Language Learners testing out of English Language Learner 
status (%) 16.1% 16.1% 14.7% 17.3% NA 15.7% 18.3% NA Up
 English Language Learners testing out of English Language 
Learner status who did so within 3 years (%) 37.9% 42.7% 55.3% 54.1% NA 56.3% 55.1% NA Up
Current English Language Learner four-year graduation rate (%) 67.0% 62.0% 54.9% 51.7% NA 60.0% 52.7% NA Up
Ever English Language Learner four-year graduation rate (%) 91.0% 91.2% 91.3% 91.6% NA 92.0% 92.0% NA Up
Current English Language Learner four-year dropout rate (%) 15.4% 17.0% 14.2% 18.2% NA 15.0% 17.8% NA Down
Ever English Language Learner four-year dropout rate (%) 2.2% 2.4% 2.2% 2.0% NA 1.3% 1.7% NA Down
Current English Language Learner six-year graduation rate (%) 55.8% 66.9% 71.8% 67.6% NA * * NA Up
Ever English Language Learner six year graduation rate (%) 93.3% 93.3% 93.8% 94.1% NA * * NA Up
Current English Language Learner six year dropout rate (%) 32.7% 24.2% 20.5% 24.0% NA * * NA Down
Ever English Language Learner six year dropout rate (%) 4.2% 4.4% 4.2% 4.1% NA * * NA Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1d Improve the ability of students with disabilities to progress academically and socially. 
Students with Individualized Education Programs increased two percent from 305,806 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 
312,315 in the 2025–2026 School Year; over the same reporting period, the number of students newly recommended for 
special education services decreased five percent to 36,801 and the number of students no longer recommended increased 
four percent to 5,453. 
Pre-school special education enrollment increased two percent to 32,996 in the 2025–2026 School Year, with increases in 
enrollment at NYCPS, contracted providers, and private or home settings and decreases in enrollment at State-approved 
non-public schools and charter schools, the latter declining 20 percent to 102 students. School-age special education 
enrollment similarly increased two percent to 279,319, with slight increases across all categories except State-approved 
non-public schools, which declined five percent to 4,577.
From the 2024–2025 School Year to the 2025–2026 School Year, students with disabilities in grades 3 to 8 progressing into 
a higher level in English Language Arts declined over 15 percentage points from 34.1 percent to 18.9 percent, mirroring 
the overall decline in ELA proficiency rates. Students progressing into a higher level in math declined over three percentage 
points from 24.6 percent to 21.0 percent.
Due Process Complaints (DPCs) and Ten-Day Notices (TDNs) are tracked by filings, settlements, and costs. A DPC is a formal 
request for an impartial hearing to resolve a dispute concerning a student’s special education program, services, placement, 
evaluation, or educational rights. A TDN is a parent’s written notice to NYCPS that they reject the student’s current special 
education program and intend to secure private services or placement at NYCPS’s expense unless the dispute is resolved. 
The total number of Due Process Complaints filed decreased 19 percent from 19,511 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 
15,767 in the 2025–2026 School Year, declining across all categories except pre-school. The overall decrease was driven 
primarily by private schools, which comprised the largest setting type for complaints and decreased 21 percent from 
17,552 to 13,855. Due Process Complaints settled decreased 21 percent across the same reporting period, from 1,127 to 
895. Cases can be settled in years subsequent to their initial filing. Since imposing controls associated with Due Process 
Complaints, including enforcement of the Parental Notice of Intent, NYCPS has seen a significant decrease in the number of 
complaints filed. In addition, the Enhanced Rate Equitable Services (ERES) Unit, established in Fiscal 2024 under the Office 
of General Counsel, has provided a pathway for families to obtain services in lieu of filing a Due Process Complaint where 
NYCPS has not provided services directly. 
<<<PAGE 287>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 275
The number of Ten-Day Notices filed decreased seven percent from 11,818 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 11,003 in 
the 2025–2026 School Year. Ten Day Notices settled decreased eight percent over the same reporting period, from 3,878 
to 3,553. Similarly to Due Process Complaints, additional control and enforcement measures have driven a decrease in the 
number of Ten Day Notices filed.
NYCPS began tracking average settlement costs for Due Process Complaints and Ten-Day Notices in Fiscal 2026 to provide 
greater visibility into the financial impact of special education disputes. Average settlement cost for both filing types 
increased eight percent from $101,424 to $109,859; average settlement cost for Due Process Complaints increased from 
$98,840 to $104,881 and average settlement cost for Ten Day Notices increased from $102,175 to $111,113. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Students with Individualized Education Programs 288,163 289,654 298,347 305,806 312,315 * * Neutral *
Students newly recommended for special education services 32,099 36,316 36,392 38,712 36,801 * * Up *
Students no longer in need of special education services 4,668 5,087 5,228 5,224 5,453 * * Up *
 Students with disabilities in cohort graduating from high 
school in 4 years (%) 64.1% 65.6% 64.9% 59.4% NA 65.6% 60.4% NA Up
 Students with disabilities in cohort graduating from high 
school in 6 years (%) 66.7% 69.0% 71.6% 72.7% NA ñ ñ NA Up
 Students with disabilities in cohort dropping out from high 
school in 4 years (%) 7.7% 7.8% 7.4% 6.7% NA 7.2% 6.3% NA Down
Students with disabilities in cohort dropping out from high 
school in 6 years (%) 16.3% 14.5% 12.4% 12.2% NA * * NA Down
Special education enrollment – Pre-school 25,935 29,005 31,542 32,334 32,996 * * Up *
– New York City Public Schools 3,859 5,119 5,792 6,239 6,441 * * Up *
– Non-public school – state approved 9,047 8,954 8,907 8,754 8,560 * * Neutral *
– Contracted (3K, Pre-K) 5,492 7,281 7,745 7,099 7,468 * * Up *
– Charter schools 61 90 121 128 102 * * Up *
– Private or home 7,476 7,561 8,977 10,114 10,425 * * Up *
Special education enrollment – School-age 262,228 260,649 266,805 273,472 279,319 * * Neutral *
 – New York City Public Schools 182,464 182,192 185,363 190,770 196,104 * * Neutral *
– Charter schools 24,441 25,474 26,630 27,631 28,242 * * Up *
– Non-public school – state approved 5,452 5,209 5,002 4,835 4,577 * * Down *
– Non-public school – not state approved 49,871 47,774 49,810 50,236 50,396 * * Neutral *
 Students with disabilities in grades 3 to 8 progressing into a 
higher level – English Language Arts (%) NA 25.6% 23.4% 34.1% 18.9% ñ ñ NA Up
 – Math (%) NA 30.7% 24.4% 24.6% 21.0% ñ ñ NA Up
 Students fully scheduled to receive their IEP-recommended 
special education programs (%) 88% 91% 92% 93% 93% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Related services mandates with full encounter recorded (%) 95% 95% 95% 94% 93% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Autism specialized program enrollment NA NA NA NA 4,577 * * NA *
Due Process Complaints filed 17,883 22,063 26,221 19,511 15,767 * * Down *
– Private School 16,740 20,267 24,004 17,552 13,855 * * Down *
– Public School 902 1,279 1,241 979 895 * * Down *
– Pre-School 98 315 765 811 912 * * Up *
– Other 143 202 211 169 105 * * Down *
Ten Day Notices filed 11,508 14,425 17,317 11,818 11,003 * * Down *
Due Process Complaints settled 973 1,273 1,072 1,127 895 * * Down *
Ten Day Notices settled 2,787 3,654 3,951 3,878 3,553 * * Up *
Average settlement cost ($) $77,853 $83,254 $93,377 $101,424 $109,859 * * Up *
– Due Process Complaints $80,592 $84,800 $94,309 $98,840 $104,881 * * Up *
– Ten Day Notices $76,897 $82,715 $93,124 $102,175 $111,113 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 288>>>
Page 276  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1e Increase the percentage of high school graduates enrolling in post-secondary education or training. 
The percent of the high school cohort taking the SAT at least once in four years of high school decreased over two 
percentage points from 70.9 percent in the 2023–2024 School Year to 68.2 percent in the 2024–2025 School Year. The 
Fiscal 2027 PMMR will include data for the 2025–2026 School Year and post-secondary enrollment data for the 2024–2025 
School Year.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
High school cohort taking the SAT at least once in 4 years of high 
school (%) 58.4% 71.5% 70.9% 68.2% NA 71.9% 72.5% NA Up
 ® High school cohort who graduate ready for college and 
careers (%) NA NA 51.7% 54.2% NA 52.7% 55.2% NA Up
® High school cohort who graduated from high school and 
enrolled in a college or other post-secondary program within 6 
months (%) 61.5% 63.7% 63.0% NA NA 64.0% 65.0% NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1f Increase the percentage of elementary, middle and high school students taking coursework that prepares 
them for future success. 
From the 2023–2024 School Year to the 2024–2025 School Year, the percent of the high school cohort taking at least one 
Advanced Placement (AP) exam in four years of high school decreased one percentage point from 44.9 percent to 43.9 
percent and the percent of the cohort passing at least one AP exam increased two percentage points from 25.6 percent 
to 27.5 percent. The Fiscal 2027 PMMR will include data for the 2025–2026 School Year.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 High school cohort taking at least 1 AP exam in 4 years of high 
school (%) 40.7% 44.0% 44.9% 43.9% NA 45.9% 45.9% NA Up
High school cohort passing at least 1 AP exam in 4 years of high 
school (%) 22.8% 23.7% 25.6% 27.5% NA 26.6% 27.6% NA Up
Students who successfully completed approved rigorous courses or 
assessments (%) 73.2% 67.5% 61.9% 60.7% NA 63.0% 61.7% NA Up
Students attempting at least one Career and Technical Education 
course for credit 46,198 54,719 55,122 54,779 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Deliver early childhood education services
Goal 2a Ensure access to quality early child care services in communities of need and achieve maximum capacity. 
Total Infant/Toddler enrollment increased 17 percent from 6,378 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 7,449 in the 2025–2026 
School Year, with enrollment increasing more than fourfold in Early City Tax Levy (CTL) Transitional seats from 128 to 545. 
An increase in awareness of Infant/Toddler services could have contributed to enrollment increases. Additionally, NYCPS 
now accepts vouchers issued by the Administration for Children’s Services (ACS) to enroll in an NYCPS-contracted seat, 
leading to a greater number of families accessing these services. Unfilled seats decreased 16 percent from 4,105 to 3,462. 
In Fiscal 2025, many severely underenrolled sites closed, leading to decreases in unfilled seats and therefore increases in 
utilization. The overall utilization rate increased seven percentage points from 61 percent to 68 percent but decreased for 
Early CTL Transitional settings from 100 percent to 86 percent due to unfilled seats increasing from 0 to 87. Fiscal Year 
spending per child for Infant/Toddler programs increased 39 percent from $24,192 to $33,523, growing by nearly 47 
percent for Extended Day and Year settings from $23,882 to $34,995 but decreasing five percent for Early CTL Transitional 
settings from $39,334 to $37,443. Increases in per child spending for Infant/Toddler seats are due to increased enrollment 
in the 2025–2026 School Year, particularly as these seats are higher cost. Minimum rates are also embedded in vendor’s 
multi-year contracts. 
<<<PAGE 289>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 277
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total Infant/Toddler student enrollment NA 6,346 10,441 6,378 7,449 6,394 8,009 NA Up
– Extended Day and Year NA 6,220 10,317 6,250 6,904 6,265 7,880 NA Up
– Early CTL Transitional NA 126 124 128 545 129 129 NA Up
Total Infant/Toddler unfilled seats NA 2,148 438 4,105 3,462 4,089 5,181 NA Down
– Extended Day and Year NA 2,146 434 4,092 3,375 4,077 4,814 NA Down
– Early CTL Transitional NA 2 4 0 87 0 0 NA Down
Total Infant/Toddler utilization rate (%) NA 75% 96% 61% 68% 61% 61% NA *
– Extended Day and Year (%) NA 74% 96% 60% 67% 61% 62% NA *
– Early CTL Transitional (%) NA 98% 97% 100% 86% 100% 100% NA *
Fiscal Year spending per child based on Infant/Toddler enrollment 
($) NA $39,883 $38,706 $24,192 $33,523 $24,192 $24,192 NA *
– Extended Day and Year ($) NA $34,493 $34,724 $23,882 $34,995 $23,882 $23,882 NA *
– Early CTL Transitional ($) NA $45,273 $42,687 $39,334 $37,443 $39,334 $39,334 NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Ensure access to quality 3-K services in communities of need and achieve maximum capacity.
Total 3-K enrollment decreased from 44,729 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 43,678 in the 2025–2026 School Year and 
decreased across all categories, most notably for CTL3 Transitional settings which declined 14 percent to 1,729. These small 
shifts are most likely due to normal fluctuations in enrollment. Unfilled seats increased from 7,988 to 8,132 but decreased 
for Extended Day and Year and CTL3 Transitional. The overall utilization rate decreased slightly from 85 percent to 84 
percent and overall Fiscal Year spending per child for 3-K remained largely stable at $20,523 in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total 3-K student enrollment NA 32,361 43,957 44,729 43,678 45,454 46,818 NA Up
– School Day and Year NA 26,320 37,636 37,462 36,735 37,636 38,436 NA Up
– Extended Day and Year NA 4,160 4,261 5,259 5,214 5,758 6,209 NA Up
– CTL3 Transitional NA 1,881 2,060 2,008 1,729 2,060 2,174 NA Up
Total 3-K unfilled seats NA 9,355 8,446 7,988 8,132 7,263 6,390 NA Down
– School Day and Year NA 5,495 4,965 6,068 6,526 5,894 5,943 NA Down
– Extended Day and Year NA 3,050 2,897 1,457 1,164 958 264 NA Down
– CTL3 Transitional NA 810 584 463 442 411 184 NA Down
Total 3-K utilization rate (%) NA 78% 84% 85% 84% 86% 88% NA *
– School Day and Year (%) NA 83% 88% 86% 85% 87% 87% NA *
– Extended Day and Year (%) NA 58% 60% 78% 82% 86% 96% NA *
– CTL3 Transitional (%) NA 70% 78% 81% 80% 83% 92% NA *
Fiscal Year spending per child based on 3-K enrollment ($) NA $23,781 $23,800 $20,637 $20,523 $20,637 $20,637 NA *
– School Day and Year ($) NA $18,095 $18,007 $19,314 $18,364 $19,314 $19,314 NA *
– Extended Day and Year ($) NA $27,275 $27,421 $27,473 $27,602 $27,473 $27,473 NA *
– CTL3 Transitional ($) NA $25,974 $25,973 $27,402 $25,904 $27,402 $27,402 NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 290>>>
Page 278  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2c Ensure access to quality Pre-K services in communities of need and achieve maximum capacity.
Total Pre-K enrollment decreased from 56,950 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 55,042 in the 2025–2026 School Year with 
slight declines across all categories. These small shifts are most likely due to normal fluctuations in enrollment and fewer 
eligible children due to decreased birthrates and families leaving the City. Unfilled seats decreased 17 percent due to the 
Fiscal 2025 closing of sites that had been severely underenrolled and seats that were converted to 3-K and Infant/Toddler 
seats to address need in saturated areas, causing the utilization rate to increase two percentage points from 79 percent 
to 81 percent. Fiscal Year spending per child for Pre-K declined seven percent from $18,032 to $16,704. This decline was 
driven by a 14 percent decline in spending per child for School Day and Year settings, from $17,276 to $14,903, and a 33 
percent decline for Extended Day and Year settings, from $34,458 to $22,960.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total Pre-K student enrollment NA 59,687 59,250 56,950 55,042 59,250 53,117 NA Up
– School Day and Year NA 54,948 54,608 51,996 51,089 54,608 49,423 NA Up
– Extended Day and Year NA 2,961 2,742 2,424 2,355 2,742 1,904 NA Up
– CTL4 Transitional NA 1,778 1,900 1,764 1,598 1,900 1,793 NA Up
Total Pre-K unfilled seats NA 15,589 14,008 15,181 12,609 12,881 15,138 NA Down
– School Day and Year NA 11,218 10,252 11,429 9,964 8,817 11,916 NA Down
– Extended Day and Year NA 3,131 2,763 2,424 2,138 2,106 2,702 NA Down
– CTL4 Transitional NA 1,240 993 725 507 589 520 NA Down
Total Pre-K utilization rate (%) NA 79% 81% 79% 81% 82% 78% NA *
– School Day and Year (%) NA 83% 84% 82% 84% 86% 81% NA *
– Extended Day and Year (%) NA 49% 50% 50% 52% 57% 41% NA *
– CTL4 Transitional (%) NA 59% 66% 71% 76% 76% 78% NA *
Fiscal Year spending per child based on Pre-K enrollment ($) NA $19,600 $19,696 $18,032 $16,704 $18,032 $18,032 NA *
– School Day and Year ($) NA $14,930 $14,917 $17,276 $14,903 $17,276 $17,276 NA *
– Extended Day and Year ($) NA $22,817 $22,850 $34,458 $22,960 $34,458 $34,458 NA *
– CTL4 Transitional ($) NA $21,054 $21,320 $23,627 $22,101 $23,627 $23,627 NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2d Ensure access to quality School Day and Year programming in communities of need and achieve maximum 
capacity.
School Day and Year programs mirror NYCPS district schools’ schedules and calendars. Total School Day and Year student 
enrollment declined from 89,458 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 87,824 in the 2025–2026 School Year while total 
School Day and Year unfilled seats decreased six percent from 17,497 to 16,490. The utilization rate remained constant at 
84 percent. Fiscal Year spending per child based on School Day and Year enrollment dropped eight percent, from $18,130 
in Fiscal 2025 to $16,712 in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total School Day and Year student enrollment NA 81,268 92,244 89,458 87,824 92,244 87,859 NA Up
Total School Day and Year unfilled seats NA 16,713 15,217 17,497 16,490 14,711 17,859 NA Down
Total School Day and Year utilization rate (%) NA 83% 86% 84% 84% 86% 83% NA *
Fiscal Year spending per child based on School Day and Year enroll -
ment ($) NA $16,513 $16,462 $18,130 $16,712 $18,130 $18,130 NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 291>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 279
Goal 2e Ensure access to quality Extended Day and Year programming in communities of need and achieve 
maximum capacity.
Extended Day and Year programs provide year-round care and learning for up to 10 hours a day. Total Extended Day and 
Year student enrollment increased from 14,090 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 14,473 in the 2025–2026 School Year. 
Total Extended Day and Year unfilled seats dropped 16 percent from 7,973 to 6,677 due to the closing of underenrolled 
sites, which led the utilization rate to increase by four percentage points from 64 percent to 68 percent. Fiscal Year spending 
per child based on Extended Day and Year enrollment increased 24 percent from $26,776 in Fiscal 2025 to $33,194 in 
Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total Extended Day and Year student enrollment NA 13,341 17,320 14,090 14,473 14,765 15,992 NA Up
Total Extended Day and Year unfilled seats NA 8,327 6,094 7,973 6,677 7,141 7,779 NA Down
Total Extended Day and Year utilization rate (%) NA 62% 74% 64% 68% 67% 67% NA *
Fiscal Year spending per child based on Extended Day and Year 
enrollment ($) NA $28,195 $28,332 $26,776 $33,194 $26,776 $26,776 NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2f Ensure access to quality CTL Transitional programming in communities of need and achieve maximum 
capacity.
CTL Transitional programs, which provide similar hours as Extended Day and Year programs but are funded through City Tax 
Levy dollars with support from federal grants, mandates that families of children in the programs meet eligibility requirements 
including income limits, living in temporary housing, or receiving public benefits. Total CTL Transitional student enrollment 
remained consistent in the 2025–2026 School Year at 3,872. Total unfilled seats declined 13 percent from 1,188 in the 
2024–2025 School Year to 1,036 in the 2025–2026 School Year, causing the utilization rate to increase two percentage 
points from 77 percent to 79 percent. Similar to Extended Day and Year programming, the closing of underenrolled sites 
contributed to the decrease in unfilled seats and an increase in utilization. Actual seat counts fluctuate slightly from year 
to year. Fiscal Year spending per child based on CTL Transitional enrollment decreased four percent from $26,086 in Fiscal 
2025 to $25,086 in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total CTL Transitional student enrollment NA 3,785 4,084 3,900 3,872 4,089 4,096 NA Up
Total CTL Transitional unfilled seats NA 2,052 1,581 1,188 1,036 1,000 1,071 NA Down
Total CTL Transitional utilization rate (%) NA 65% 72% 77% 79% 80% 79% NA *
Fiscal Year spending per child based on CTL Transitional enrollment ($) NA $30,767 $29,993 $26,086 $25,086 $26,086 $26,086 NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 292>>>
Page 280  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 3 Coordinate with NYPD to maintain safe schools.
Goal 3a Ensure a safe and secure learning environment for all students and staff.
NYCPS has a long-established collaborative partnership with the New York 
Police Department’s (NYPD) School Safety Division, which works to provide a 
safe and secure learning environment in every school building. NYCPS’s work 
with the School Safety Division includes establishing safety protocols and 
procedures in schools, developing school safety and emergency preparedness 
plans, and maintaining a safe environment for students and staff. In addition, 
NYCPS’s Office of Safety and Youth Development works closely with schools 
to provide a safe, supportive, and inclusive environment by investing in and 
expanding successful school climate programs—including restorative trainings, 
mental health programs and social-emotional supports. When warranted, 
School Safety Agents are called upon to intervene and mitigate non-criminal 
incidents on school grounds. School safety incidents decreased across all 
categories between the 2024–2025 School Year and the 2025–2026 School 
Year. The number of seven major felony crimes decreased three percent from 
368 to 356, other criminal categories decreased 15 percent from 1,392 to 
1,185, and other incidents decreased two percent from 5,111 to 5,006. The 
number of youth arrested in schools remained largely stable, increasing slightly 
from 524 to 526. Safety has consistently been a top priority for NYCPS, and 
the Department continues to work in lockstep with its partners in the NYPD 
School Safety Division to provide a safe and secure learning environment in 
every school building. The reduction in the number of safety incidents over the 
past school year reflects that sustained focus.
Over the same reporting period, accidents in schools involving students decreased slightly from 46,466 to 46,008 and 
accidents involving members of the public increased 10 percent from 325 to 357. Data for this indicator from the 2024–
2025 School Year onwards is much lower than historic levels due to enhancements made to the reporting system to verify 
employees, rather than having schools manually enter the data and select the most appropriate title from the dropdown 
list, which led to teachers and school staff potentially being included in prior year’s counts when they should not have been. 
In the 2025–2026 School Year, the percent of students who reported feeling safe in the hallways and cafeterias of their 
school was 87 percent and the percent of students who reported feeling safe in the locker rooms and bathrooms of 
their school was 84 percent. These questions were newly introduced in the 2026 NYC School Survey; as such, there is no 
corresponding historic data. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 School safety – Seven major felony crimes 346 402 404 368 356 ò ò Neutral Down
 – Other criminal categories 1,758 1,683 1,494 1,392 1,185 ò ò Down Down
 – Other incidents 5,965 6,779 5,792 5,111 5,006 ò ò Down Down
Accidents in schools – Students 42,450 48,710 47,052 46,466 46,008 * * Neutral Down
– Public 736 768 746 325 357 * * Down Down
Students reporting feeling safe in the hallways and cafeteria of their 
school (%) NA NA NA NA 87% * 87% NA Up
Students reporting feeling safe in the locker rooms and bathrooms 
of their school (%) NA NA NA NA 84% * 85% NA Up
Youth arrested in schools 359 354 474 524 526 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Other incidentsOther criminal categories
School safety—Seven major felony crimes
SY 2025–26SY 2024–25SY 2023–24SY 2022–23SY 2021–22
School Safety Incidents
346
1,758
5,965
404
1,494
5,792
402
1,683
6,779
368
1,392
356
1,185
5,111
5,006
<<<PAGE 293>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 281
SERVICE 4 Provide essential, non-academic services to all eligible New York City students in public, 
charter, and non-public schools.
Goal 4a Work with SCA to design, construct, modernize and repair durable, functional and attractive educational 
facilities, on schedule and within budget.
The number of new seats created declined 30 percent from 6,632 in Fiscal 2025 to 4,656 in Fiscal 2026. The number of 
seats created fluctuates year-to-year based on the Five-Year Capital Plan, which projected a higher number of seats to be 
created in Fiscal 2025 than in the subsequent year. The percentage of schools that exceed capacity and students in schools 
that exceed capacity declined slightly across every category, most notably for middle schools, where the share of schools 
exceeding capacity fell from 16.0 percent to 12.0 percent, and for elementary schools, where the share of schools exceeding 
capacity fell from 32.0 percent to 27.0 percent. School building ratings shifted modestly from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026, 
with a slight increase in the percent of schools rated ‘Fair to good condition,’ a slight decrease in ‘Fair condition,’ and a 
small decline in the percent rated ‘Good condition.’
Rooftop solar installations on NYC Public School buildings decreased from 32 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 13 in the 
2025–2026 School Year, and the total megawatt output of these installations similarly declined from seven to three over 
the same reporting period. There were more solar installation projects completed than originally planned in Fiscal 2025, 
which resulted in fewer projects completed in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total new seats created 8,934 6,532 11,270 6,632 4,656 4,624 3,657 Down *
Schools that exceed capacity – Elementary schools (%) 35.0% 34.0% 34.0% 32.0% 27.0% * * Down Down
– Middle schools (%) 17.0% 17.0% 17.0% 16.0% 12.0% * * Down Down
– High schools (%) 24.0% 29.0% 29.0% 28.0% 27.0% * * Neutral Down
Students in schools that exceed capacity – Elementary/middle 
schools (%) 34.0% 34.0% 35.0% 34.0% 28.0% * * Down Down
– High schools (%) 36.0% 43.0% 41.0% 43.0% 42.0% * * Up Down
School building ratings – Good condition (%) 1.6% 1.8% 1.6% 1.7% 1.3% * * Down Up
 – Fair to good condition (%) 29.7% 28.9% 29.0% 32.8% 34.6% ñ ñ Up Up
– Fair condition (%) 68.6% 69.1% 69.2% 65.3% 63.6% * * Neutral *
 – Fair to poor condition (%) 0.1% 0.2% 0.3% 0.3% 0.5% ò ò Up Down
– Poor condition (%) 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% * * Neutral Down
Rooftop solar installations on NYC Public School buildings 10 19 9 32 13 * * Up *
Total megawatt output of rooftop solar installations 3 5 2 7 3 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 294>>>
Page 282  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 4b Ensure safe and reliable bus transportation to and from school.
From the 2024–2025 School Year to the 2025–2026 School Year, the average number of students assigned stop-to-school 
bus service decreased five percent from 72,190 to 68,333 and the average number of stop-to-school routes dropped slightly 
from 2,136 to 2,122. Over the same reporting period, the average number of students assigned curb-to-school bus service 
increased nearly 12 percent from 61,405 to 68,466, now surpassing the number of students assigned stop-to-school service. 
The average number of curb-to-school routes increased seven percent from 5,979 to 6,393. In the 2025–2026 School Year, 
there were more students being assigned curb-to-school routes on their IEPs due to increased need. Since curb-to-school 
routes are mostly used by students with IEPs, this resulted in an increase in curb-to-school assignments. 
The average number of Students in Temporary Housing (STH) utilizing yellow school bus service decreased from 5,492 in 
the 2024–2025 School Year to 4,986 in the 2025–2026 School Year and the number of foster care students utilizing yellow 
school bus service increased from 1,213 to 1,271. Between the two School Years, the average number of STH issued OMNY 
cards increased from 6,550 to 6,853 and the number of STH parents/guardians utilizing caregiver OMNY cards decreased 
from 7,772 to 7,168.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Average number of students assigned to stop-to-school service (per 
month) 73,031 73,592 72,753 72,190 68,333 * * Neutral *
Average number of students assigned to curb-to-school service (per 
month) 54,661 56,359 56,271 61,405 68,466 * * Up *
Average number of stop-to-school routes (per month) 2,352 2,233 2,143 2,136 2,122 * * Neutral *
Average number of curb-to-school routes (per month) 5,786 5,596 5,711 5,979 6,393 * * Up *
Average number of service incidents (per month) 2,395 3,874 3,349 3,672 3,706 * * Up *
 Average number of Students in Temporary Housing (STH) utiliz -
ing yellow school bus service 2,798 3,869 5,561 5,492 4,986 * * Up *
 Average number of Students in Temporary Housing (STH) issued 
OMNY cards 5,560 5,374 6,109 6,550 6,853 * * Up *
 Average number of Students in Temporary Housing (STH) par -
ents/guardians utilizing caregiver OMNY cards 4,673 6,647 12,441 8,029 7,168 * * Up *
Average number of foster care students provided yellow school bus 
service 1,375 1,067 1,188 1,213 1,271 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 4c Provide healthy, culturally inclusive, and nutritious meals to students.
From the 2024–2025 School Year to the 2025–2026 School Year, the average number of breakfasts served daily remained 
stable at 222,338 and the average cost of breakfasts increased slightly from $3.39 to $3.58. The average number of lunches 
served daily similarly remained stable at 551,809 and the average cost of lunches increased slightly from $5.23 to $5.51. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average breakfasts served daily 272,369 234,377 230,887 221,232 222,338 ñ ñ Down Up
 Average lunches served daily 542,294 539,629 557,596 549,064 551,809 ñ ñ Neutral Up
Schools certified to serve halal and kosher meals NA NA 116 119 115 * * NA Up
Student satisfaction with Office of Food and Nutrition Services (%) NA NA 72.1% 74.6% 75.1% * * NA Up
Average cost of breakfasts served ($) $2.75 $3.19 $3.26 $3.39 $3.58 * * Up *
Average cost of lunches served ($) $4.23 $4.19 $5.02 $5.23 $5.51 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 295>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 283
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
The number of teachers increased nearly five percent from 77,585 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 81,249 in the 2025–
2026 School Year due to NYCPS’s enhanced hiring efforts as part of their strategy to lower class sizes to meet compliance 
with the State class size law. As a result of this increase in new hires, the percentage of teachers with five or more years 
teaching experience declined more than four percentage points from 74.3 percent to 69.4 percent over the same reporting 
period.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Payout ($000) NA $520,836 $502,034 $295,839 NA * * NA Down
Average expenditure per student ($) $30,472 $30,185 $33,864 $35,498 NA * * NA *
– Elementary school ($) $30,391 $30,316 $33,372 $35,141 NA * * NA *
– Middle school ($) $29,437 $28,917 $31,866 $33,328 NA * * NA *
– High school ($) $26,539 $26,468 $28,498 $29,628 NA * * NA *
– Full-time special education (District 75) ($) $86,011 $79,820 $111,373 $114,759 NA * * NA *
Principals with 4 or more years experience as principal (%) 71.5% 70.0% 69.4% 69.4% 70.4% * * Neutral Up
Teachers 77,998 75,936 76,562 77,585 81,249 * * Neutral *
Teachers with 5 or more years teaching experience (%) 73.2% 74.4% 74.6% 74.3% 69.9% * * Neutral *
Teachers absent 11 or more days (%) 16.3% 18.8% 17.3% 16.4% 15.8% * * Neutral Down
Teachers reporting that they usually look forward to each 
working day at their school (%) 86% 85% 86% 88% 88% 90% 89% Neutral Up
Teachers reporting that they would recommend this school to 
families seeking a place for their child (%) 86% 84% 85% 87% 86% 89% 88% Neutral Up
Workplace injuries reported 2,438 2,987 3,173 2,870 2,913 * * Up Down
Students residing in temporary housing during the school year 88,119 105,963 131,351 135,344 NA * * NA *
Students residing in temporary housing during the school year 
(%) 9.0% 10.9% 13.4% 14.1% NA * * NA *
Students residing in shelter during the school year 26,258 38,862 57,319 59,618 NA * * NA *
Students residing in shelter during the school year (%) 2.7% 4.0% 5.9% 6.2% NA * * NA *
Students experiencing economic hardship (%) 69% 72% 74% 74% 73% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Completed requests for interpretation increased 13 percent from 428,840 in the 2024–2025 School Year to 483,159 in the 
2025–2026 School Year. NYCPS has made a concerted effort in raising awareness of available language assistance services 
to staff and communities, which may have contributed to these increases. Letters responded to within 14 days increased 
four percentage points to 91.4 percent and e-mails responded to within 14 days increased nearly one percentage point to 
80.0 percent over the same reporting period.
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 287,687 293,432 347,496 428,840 483,159 * * Up *
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 87.7% 69.3% 70.2% 87.1% 91.4% 75% 77% Up Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 74.1% 69.3% 77.4% 79.2% 80.0% 75.0% 77.0% Up Up
CORE facility rating 100 NA 100 99 100 90 90 NA Up
Parents completing the NYC School Survey 478,750 416,396 415,651 438,365 446,743 * * Neutral *
Customers rating service good or better as applicable (%) 96% 95% 95% 96% 96% 97% 97% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 296>>>
Page 284  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $31,558.0 $31,505.5 $33,367.6 $34,672.3 $37,709.6 $36,897.6 $38,603.8 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $51.0 $46.3 $49.2 $25.0 $26.7 $29.2 $29.2 Neutral
Personnel 141,748 141,594 143,663 147,565 152,698 155,238 156,156 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $32.0 $39.0 $40.5 $40.9 $21.8 $21.6 $23.2 Up
Human services contract budget ($000,000) $1,684.5 $1,872.4 $1,952.3 $1,971.2 $2,443.5 $2,232.6 $1,834.6 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 297>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 285
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $19,698.3 $20,941.7 
        401 - General Ed. Instruction and School Leadership $7,923.8 $8,227.2 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e, 1f
        403 - Special Ed. Instruction and School Leadership $2,557.1 $2,899.7 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e, 1f
        407 - Universal Pre-K $894.9 $870.5 2b, 2c
        409 - Early Childhood Programs $20.9 $26.1 2a
        415 - School Support Organization $361.2 $338.5 1a, 1b, 1d
        421 - Citywide Special Ed. Instr. and School Leadership $1,546.7 $1,502.8 1a, 1d
        423 - Special Education Instructional Support $461.2 $423.2 1a, 1d
        433 - Division of Technology 4 NA $57.2 All
        435 - School Facilities $193.4 $202.5 4a
        437 - Pupil Transportation $9.2 $114.0 4b
        439 - School Food Services $258.5 $294.1 4c
        453 - Central Administration $260.6 $116.7 All
        461 - Fringe Benefits $4,226.7 $4,967.7 All
        481 - Categorical Programs $984.1 $1,004.0 All
Other Than Personal Services - Total $14,974.0 $16,767.9 
        402 - General Ed. Instruction and School Leadership $1,043.1 $1,276.4 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e, 1f
        404 - Special Ed. Instruction and School Leadership $8.5 $17.9 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d, 1e, 1f
        406 - Charter Schools $3,358.1 $3,593.1 All
        408 - Universal Pre-K $1,043.3 $975.3 2b, 2c
        410 - Early Childhood Programs $522.2 $630.5 2a
        416 - School Support Organization $26.5 $44.3 1a, 1b, 1d
        422 - Citywide Special Ed. Instr. and School Leadership $36.0 $41.4 1a, 1d
        424 - Special Education Instructional Support $577.0 $649.6 1a, 1d
        434 - Division of Technology 4 NA $195.9 All
        436 - School Facilities $1,207.9 $1,255.0 4a
        438 - Pupil Transportation $1,916.9 $2,200.2 4b
        440 - School Food Services $281.2 $372.1 4c
        442 - School Safety $343.2 $377.8 3a
        444 - Energy and Leases $813.9 $921.7 All
        454 - Central Administration $187.5 $71.5 All
        470 - Special Education Pre-K Contract Payments $816.8 $961.7 1d, 2a, 2b, 2c, 2d, 2e, 2f
        472 - Charter & Contract Schools and Foster Care Placements $1,538.0 $1,918.1 All
        474 - NPS and FIT Payments $105.8 $117.1 All
        482 - Categorical Programs $1,148.1 $1,148.2 All
Agency Total $34,672.3 $37,709.6 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter. 4This UA originated in Fiscal 2026. “NA” Not Available
<<<PAGE 298>>>
Page 286  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Kamar Samuels was appointed as Chancellor of New York City Public Schools in January 2026. 
• Goal 1a: 
 − The 2024–2025 School Year value for ‘Student enrollment as of October 31 in grades 3-K to 12 (000)’ was revised 
from 1,054.1 to 1,054.3 to correct for an error in the previous calculation.
 − The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Students in grades 3 to 8 below standards—English Language Arts (%)’ was revised 
from 19.7 percent to 23.3 percent and the Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Students in grades 3 to 8 meeting or exceeding 
standards—English Language Arts (%)’ was revised from 57.9 percent to 51.3 percent following a review of recent 
data.
 − The 2024–2025 School Year value for ‘Classes subject to class size law at or below caps (%)’ was revised from 47 
percent to 46 percent to correct for a previous rounding error. The Fiscal 2027 target has been revised to reflect 
updated State law compliance targets—the target is now to reach 70 percent compliance by the end of the 2026–
2027 School Year, rather than 80 percent.
 − Graduation and dropout rate data as well as Regents pass rates for the 2025–2026 School Year will be available in 
the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report. 
 − The previously reported target of 98 percent for the indicator ‘Students in grades 1 to 8 promoted’ was removed as 
recent data for this indicator has continued to exceed 99 percent.
• Goal 1b: 
 − The Fiscal 2027 targets for the following indicators have been updated based on a review of recent data:
 » ‘Phone calls responded to by parent coordinator or parent engagement designee (000)’ was changed from 
10,000 to 35,000.
 » ‘Families reporting that their child’s school communicates in a language that they can understand (%)’ was 
changed from 95 percent to 97 percent.
 » ‘Families reporting that they are greeted warmly when they call or visit the school (%)’ was changed from 95 
percent to 97 percent.
 » ‘Families reporting that their child belongs at this school (%)’ was changed from 95 percent to 96 percent. 
• Goal 1c: 
 − 2025–2026 School Year data for ‘English Language Learners testing out of English Language Learner status (%)’ 
and ‘English Language Learners testing out of English Language Learner status who did so within 3 years (%)’ as 
well as graduation and dropout rate indicators for English Language Learners will be available in the Fiscal 2027 
Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report.
 − Previously published 2023–2024 School Year data for ‘Ever English Language Learner four-year graduation rate 
(%)’ was revised from 91.9 percent to 91.3 percent and previously published 2023–2024 School Year data for ‘Ever 
English Language Learner four-year dropout rate (%)’ was revised from 1.6 percent to 2.2 percent after discovery 
of errors in the initial reporting.
<<<PAGE 299>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 287
• Goal 1d: 
 − 2025–2026 School Year data for graduation and dropout rate indicators for students with disabilities will be available 
in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report.
 − ‘Autism specialized program enrollment,’ ‘Due Process Complaints filed’ and associated sub-indicators, ‘Ten 
Day Notices filed,’ ‘Due Process Complaints settled,’ ‘Ten Day Notices settled,’ and ‘Average settlement cost’ 
and associated sub-indicators are new indicators. Historic data is not available for ‘Autism specialized program 
enrollment.’
• Goal 1e: 
 − 2024–2025 School Year data is newly available for the indicators ‘High school cohort taking the SAT at least once 
in 4 years of high school (%).’
 − 2025–2026 School Year data will be available in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report for all 
indicators in Goal 1e.
 − 2024–2025 School Year data will be available in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report for the 
indicator ‘High school cohort who graduated from high school and enrolled in a college or other post-secondary 
program within 6 months (%).’
• Goal 1f: 
 − 2025–2026 School Year data will be available in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report for all 
indicators in Goal 1f.
 − ‘Students attempting at least one Career and Technical Education course for credit’ is a new indicator. This indicator 
does not have data for the 2025–2026 School Year because CTE reporting for the previous year is not public until 
April of the following year.
• Service 2: 
 − As of Fiscal 2025, Head Start programs are no longer administered by NYCPS following the loss of federal funding. 
NYCPS managed Early Childhood services are now operated through a City Tax Levy-funded model. As a result, 
Head Start indicators across Service 2 were renamed from ‘Head Start’ to ‘CTL Transitional’ to reflect the program’s 
transition to a City Tax Levy-funded model. Affected indicators are as follows: 
 » Goal 2a: ‘Infant/Toddler student enrollment—Early CTL Transitional,’ ‘Infant/Toddler unfilled seats—Early CTL 
Transitional,’ and ‘Fiscal Year spending per child based on Infant/Toddler enrollment ($)—Early CTL Transitional.’
 » Goal 2b: ‘3-K student enrollment—CTL3 Transitional,’ ‘3-K unfilled seats—Head Start CTL3 Transitional,’ and 
‘Fiscal Year spending per child based on 3-K enrollment ($)—CTL3 Transitional.’
 » Goal 2c: ‘Pre-K student enrollment—CTL4 Transitional,’ ‘Pre-K unfilled seats—CTL4 Transitional,’ and ‘Fiscal 
Year spending per child based on Pre-K enrollment ($)—CTL4 Transitional.’
 » Goal 2f: The goal name ‘Ensure access to quality Head Start CTL programming in communities of need 
and achieve maximum capacity’ was changed to ‘Ensure access to quality CTL Transitional programming in 
communities of need and achieve maximum capacity’. The indicators ‘Total Head Start CTL student enrollment,’ 
‘Total CTL Transitional unfilled seats,’ and ‘Fiscal Year spending per child based on CTL Transitional enrollment 
($)’ were renamed accordingly.
 − The desired direction for ‘Total Infant/Toddler unfilled seats,’ ‘Total 3-K unfilled seats,’ and ‘Total Pre-K unfilled seats,’ 
‘Total School Day and Year unfilled seats,’ ‘Total Extended Day and Year unfilled seats,’ ‘Total Head Start CTL unfilled 
seats,’ and associated sub-indicators was previously erroneously published as ‘Up.’ The correct desired direction is 
‘Down.’
<<<PAGE 300>>>
Page 288  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
 − ‘Total Infant/Toddler utilization rate (%),’ ‘Total 3-K utilization rate (%),’ and ‘Total Pre-K utilization rate (%) and 
their associated sub-indicators and ‘Total School Day and Year utilization rate (%),’ ‘Total Extended Day and Year 
utilization rate,’ and ‘Total Head Start CTL utilization rate (%)’ are new indicators.
 − The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Infant/Toddler unfilled seats—Early CTL Transitional’ was revised from 367 to 0.
• Goal 3a: 
 − The previous indicator ‘Students reporting feeling safe in the hallways, bathrooms, locker rooms, and cafeteria of 
their school (%)’ was retired and split into two separate indicators ‘Students reporting feeling safe in the hallways 
and cafeteria of their school (%)’ and ‘Students reporting feeling safe in the locker rooms and bathrooms of their 
school (%)’. Data for these indicators comes from the annual NYC School Survey, which split the survey question 
into two separate questions beginning in the 2026 survey. Since these questions were introduced in the most recent 
survey, there is no comparable historic data. Fiscal 2027 targets were established for this indicator: 87 percent for the 
survey question about hallways and cafeterias, and 85 percent for the question about locker rooms and bathrooms.
 − ‘Youth arrested in schools’ is a new indicator. This indicator reports the number of people 21 or younger arrested 
on school grounds.
• Goal 4a: 
 − The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Total new seats created’ was revised from 4,624 to 3,657 due to updated estimates in 
the School Construction Authority’s Five-Year Capital Plan.
• Goal 4b: 
 − The previously published Fiscal 2024 value for ‘Average number of Students in Temporary Housing (STH) parents/
guardians utilizing caregiver OMNY cards’ was revised from 12,103 to 12,441 and the Fiscal 2025 value was revised 
from 7,772 to 8,029.
• Goal 4c: 
 − The Fiscal 2023 value for ‘Average breakfasts served daily’ was changed from 233,176 to 234,377 and the Fiscal 
2023 value for ‘Average lunches served daily’ was changed from 533,953 to 539,629. 
 − ‘Average cost of breakfasts served’ and ‘Average cost of lunches served’ are new indicators. 
• Agency-Wide Management: 
 − The value for ‘Payout’ is not available because starting in Fiscal 2026, values will only be reported annually as final 
audited data in the Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR) rather than as an initial estimate in the Mayor’s 
Management Report (MMR). Historically, initial figures for this indicator were provided by the Law Department in 
the MMR, while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in the following 
PMMR. OMB uses a different process and timeline to determine the finalized audited amount disbursed by the City, 
prompting this change to clarify reporting.
 − Fiscal 2025 data is newly available for ‘Average expenditure per student ($)’ and associated sub-indicators. Fiscal 
2026 data will be available in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report. 
 − Fiscal 2024 values for the following indicators were revised due to updated data:
 » ‘Principals with 4 or more years experience as principal (%)’ was changed from 69.8 percent to 69.4 percent.
 » ‘Teachers’ was changed from 76,544 to 76,562. 
 » ‘Teachers absent 11 or more days (%)’ was changed from 17.6 percent to 17.3 percent.
<<<PAGE 301>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  |  Page 289
 − Fiscal 2026 data will be available in the Fiscal 2027 Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report for the following 
indicators: 
 » ‘Students residing in temporary housing during the school year’
 » ‘Students residing in temporary housing during the school year (%)’
 » ‘Students residing in shelter during the school year’
 » ‘Students residing in shelter during the school year (%)’
 − Previously reported data for ‘Workplace injuries reported’ were revised due to new cases filed or received in 
subsequent years: 
 » Fiscal 2022 data was changed from 2,434 to 2,438.
 » Fiscal 2023 data was changed from 2,984 to 2,987.
 » Fiscal 2024 data was changed from 3,168 to 3,173.
 » Fiscal 2025 data was changed from 2,783 to 2,870.
• Agency Customer Service: 
 − The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Letters responded to within 14 days (%)’ was changed from 75 percent to 77 percent.
 − The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘E-mails responded to within 14 days (%)’ was changed from 75 percent to 77 percent.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information, go to:
• Performance Data: 
https://www.schools.nyc.gov/about-us/reports 
• School Quality Report Data: 
https://www.schools.nyc.gov/about-us/reports/school-quality 
• School Survey Information and Results: 
https://www.schools.nyc.gov/about-us/reports/school-quality/nyc-school-survey 
• School Quality Review Information and Reports: 
https://www.schools.nyc.gov/about-us/reports/school-quality/quality-review
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/schools.
<<<PAGE 302>>>
Page 290  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 303>>>
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION  
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY
Celeste A. Ramirez, President and CEO 
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY  |  Page 291
WHAT WE DO
The School Construction Authority 
(SCA) is accountable for new 
school construction and major 
renovations to existing schools. 
SCA is responsible for all capital 
planning, budgeting, designing, 
and construction. The Authority 
manages the development and 
implementation of the Department 
of Education’s, (DOE), also referred 
to as New York City Public Schools 
(NYCPS), Five-Year Capital Plan, 
identifies and acquires sites for 
new schools, leases buildings for 
schools, designs and constructs 
new facilities, and performs repairs 
and enhancements of the existing 
portfolio. 
FOCUS ON EQUITY
SCA is committed to designing and constructing safe, attractive, and 
environmentally sound public schools for children throughout all the City’s 
communities. In consultation with NYCPS, SCA has set its priorities, including 
reducing overcrowding, upgrading schools, and improving access to technology, 
to reflect this commitment. The Fiscal 2025–2029 Five-Year Capital Plan provides 
funding for tens of thousands of new seats in areas with current over-utilization 
and projected enrollment growth, as well as to reduce the reliance on temporary 
structures. Furthermore, the Capital Plan calls for much needed improvements for 
aging infrastructure as well as enhancements to ensure more equitable access by 
all children throughout the five boroughs.
<<<PAGE 304>>>
Page 292  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Design and construct new schools, additions and capital improvement projects authorized by
the Department of Education.
Goal 1a Produce the number of new school seats authorized by the Department of Education’s Five-Year Capital Plan.
Goal 1b Achieve cost efficiencies in construction.
Goal 1c Increase the number of capital improvement projects completed on schedule and within budget.
Goal 1d Ensure project safety and quality.
<<<PAGE 305>>>
SCHOOL CONSTRUCTION AUTHORITY  |  Page 293
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Design and construct new schools, additions and capital improvement projects authorized 
by the Department of Education.
Goal 1a Produce the number of new school seats authorized by the Department of Education’s Five-Year 
Capital Plan.
The number of new seats created declined 30 percent from 6,632 in Fiscal 2025 to 4,656 in Fiscal 2026. In Fiscal 2026, the 
number of new schools created decreased from seven to six, and the number of new additions constructed was unchanged 
at four. The number of schools constructed and seats created fluctuates year-to-year based on the Five-Year Capital Plan, 
which projected a higher number of seats to be created in Fiscal 2025 than in the subsequent year. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total new seats created 8,934 6,532 11,270 6,632 4,656 4,624 3,657 Down *
 New schools constructed 32 23 14 7 6 6 7 Down *
 New additions constructed 3 2 10 4 4 4 2 Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Achieve cost efficiencies in construction.
SCA continuously reviews and revises construction building standards to ensure cost effectiveness, durability, and ease of 
maintenance. The construction bid price for school capacity projects per square foot increased from $870 in Fiscal 2025 to 
$952 in Fiscal 2026. During this period, the average new school construction cost per square foot decreased slightly from 
$1,017 to $1,007 for elementary schools. Construction cost per square foot for intermediate schools increased 26 percent 
from $725 in Fiscal 2024 to $916 in Fiscal 2026; comparative data for Fiscal 2025 is not available because there were no 
intermediate school projects opened in that fiscal year. Construction cost per square foot for high schools increased 25 
percent from $621 in Fiscal 2025 to $778 in Fiscal 2026. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Construction bid price for school capacity projects per square 
foot ($) $905 $912 $894 $870 $952 $900 $900 Neutral *
Average new school construction cost per square foot – Elemen -
tary ($) $824 $875 $834 $1,017 $1,007 * * Up *
– Intermediate ($) $713 $813 $725 NA $916 * * NA *
– High school ($) $724 $846 NA $621 $778 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Increase the number of capital improvement projects completed on schedule and within budget.
Scheduled new seats constructed on time decreased to 98 percent in Fiscal 2026, a decline from the 100 percent achieved 
from Fiscal 2021 through Fiscal 2025. Capital improvement projects constructed on time or early decreased by 15 percentage 
points from 53 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 38 percent in Fiscal 2026, below the target of 60 percent. SCA closely monitors 
projects throughout the construction process to ensure timeliness. Capital improvement projects constructed within budget 
decreased ten percentage points from 82 percent to 72 percent during this period, below the target of 80 percent.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
New schools and additions – Construction funds committed as a 
percent of initial authorized budget (%) 93.2% 95.4% 92.3% 96.2% 92.4% 100.0% 100.0% Neutral Up
 Scheduled new seats constructed on time (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 98% 100% 100% Neutral Up
 Capital improvement projects constructed on time or early (%) 47% 31% 43% 53% 38% 60% 60% Neutral Up
 Capital improvement projects constructed within budget (%) 72% 77% 78% 82% 72% 80% 80% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 306>>>
Page 294  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1d Ensure project safety and quality.
The projected cost of insurance losses as a percent of construction value has increased slightly from 6.75 percent in Calendar 
2024 to 6.94 percent in Calendar 2025 based on preliminary actuarial information. As insurance claims mature, more 
relevant data will become available. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Ultimate cost of insurance losses (as % of construction value) 
(CY) 8.55% 8.71% 7.39% 6.75% 6.94% ò ò Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Personnel 835 883 947 946 977 1,059 1,059 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $4,323.1 $4,654.4 $3,990.8 $3,602.7 $3,931.0 $5,617.0 $6,249.5 Neutral
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level           “NA” - Not Available          * None
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Celeste A. Ramirez was appointed as President and CEO of the School Construction Authority by the School Construction 
Authority Board of Trustees in July 2026. 
• Fiscal 2027 targets for indicators in Goal 1a were revised based on updated information in the Five-Year Capital Plan:
 − ‘Total new seats created’ was revised from 4,764 to 3,657.
 − ‘New schools constructed’ was revised from nine to seven.
 − ‘New additions constructed’ was revised from one to two.
• In the Agency Resources table, the Fiscal 2025 value for ‘Personnel’ was published incorrectly in the Fiscal 2026 
Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report as 1,059. The correct value is 946.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information on items referenced in the narrative, go to:
• SCA’s 2025–2029 Five-Year Capital Plan: 
https://www.nycsca.org/Community/Capital-Plan-Reports-Data#Capital-Plan-67
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nycsca.org.
<<<PAGE 307>>>
DEPARTMENT OF YOUTH AND COMMUNITY 
DEVELOPMENT Sandra Escamilla-Davies, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF YOUTH AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 295
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Youth and Community 
Development (DYCD) invests in a citywide 
network of community-based organizations 
that open pathways for New Yorkers 
to connect, learn, and thrive. Through 
programs that are designed to mitigate 
the effects of poverty, expand educational 
opportunities, strengthen families, and 
support immigrant communities, DYCD 
helps ensure that New Yorkers of all ages 
can access resources that promote positive 
youth and community development, 
economic mobility, and long-term stability 
and success.
Signature programs include DYCD’s 
Comprehensive After-School System of 
NYC (COMPASS NYC), the nation’s largest 
free afterschool and summer enrichment 
program for young people in grades K-8, 
serving nearly 116,300 participants in the 
last school year. Offered at New York City 
public elementary and middle schools, 
community centers, family shelters, and 
juvenile justice facilities, COMPASS provides 
school-age youth with rich developmental 
experiences from arts and recreation to 
academic enrichment and physical fitness 
while offering safe, supportive child care 
for working families. DYCD’s Summer 
Youth Employment Program (SYEP) and 
other workforce development programs 
connect young people and adults with paid 
work experience, career exploration, and 
skill-building opportunities.
DYCD also oversees the City’s continuum 
of services for runaway and homeless youth 
(RHY), supports 192 community centers 
serving New Yorkers of all ages across the 
City (including Beacon centers in public 
schools and Cornerstone centers in public 
housing facilities), and manages more than 
1,000 City Council-funded discretionary 
programs each year. These investments 
ensure that children, youth, families, and 
communities have access to inclusive, high-
quality services where they live.
In Fiscal 2026, DYCD oversaw the Office 
of Neighborhood Safety, strengthening 
community infrastructure and supporting 
safer, healthier neighborhoods.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
DYCD is deeply committed to ensuring that its policies, practices, and investments 
advance equity across all communities. The Agency continues to refine its 
program design and outreach strategies so that services reach New Yorkers who 
need them most. DYCD incorporates explicit equity expectations into human 
services solicitations, expands provider capacity through training on accessibility, 
universal design, and equity best practices, and uses an equitable investment 
methodology that prioritizes neighborhoods with the highest needs. This focus 
has driven meaningful expansion of services for youth up to age 24, New York 
City Housing Authority (NYCHA) residents, and runaway and homeless youth—
including those who identify as transgender or nonbinary.
DYCD strengthened outreach through multilingual engagement and systems that 
improve how community needs are assessed and addressed. The Department’s 
public engagement tracker further enhances its ability to respond to feedback, 
identify gaps, and improve service delivery.
DYCD administers the Communities of Color Nonprofit Stabilization Fund, which 
strengthens Black-, Latino-, and Asian-led organizations. In Fiscal 2026, DYCD 
launched the Leadership Academy Pilot to support emerging organizations 
in building strong and sustainable operations. The Department continues 
to advance equity within its own workforce through demographic reviews, 
expanded mentoring, and leadership development opportunities. 
<<<PAGE 308>>>
Page 296  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Provide youth, families, and adults with multiple points of entry to a spectrum of high-quality 
services.
Goal 1a Engage community-based organizations to provide an array of programming and support their delivery of 
high-quality services.
SERVICE 2 Support youth development throughout New York City through the implementation, funding 
and management of contracts with nonprofit service providers.
Goal 2a Engage young people in programs that support and strengthen their overall development.
Goal 2b Engage runaway and homeless youth and young adults in services that connect them with family or 
independent living opportunities.
SERVICE 3 Increase youth capacity for economic independence through programs that provide work-related 
education, skills training and employment opportunities.
Goal 3a Engage young people in training and employment programs to support career readiness.
SERVICE 4 Support programs that provide participants with the services needed to increase and tap their 
capacity to strengthen and revitalize the communities of New York City.
Goal 4a Engage young people and adults in lower income neighborhoods in community anti-poverty initiatives to 
support and expand their capacity.
Goal 4b Engage adolescents and adults in programs to increase English literacy skills and basic education participation.
Goal 4c Engage immigrants in programs to support their integration into New York City through education, job 
readiness and social services programs.
<<<PAGE 309>>>
DEPARTMENT OF YOUTH AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 297
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Provide youth, families, and adults with multiple points of entry to a spectrum of high-
quality services.
Goal 1a Engage community-based organizations to provide an array of programming and support their delivery 
of high-quality services.
In Fiscal 2026, DYCD-funded community-based organizations (CBOs) delivered high-quality programming citywide, with 
participation reaching record levels. A total of 378,311 young people participated in DYCD-funded programs, a three percent 
increase from 368,517 in Fiscal 2025, and adult participation increased five percent to 118,726. This growth reflects expanded 
access in COMPASS NYC and for homeless young adults, as well as strong community demand. During Fiscal 2026, 94 percent 
of participants identified as Black, Indigenous, or People of Color, underscoring the Agency’s role in advancing equitable access. 
DYCD administered 1,749 City Council discretionary awards, a 16 percent increase from Fiscal 2025, and expanded capacity-
building efforts, training 14,602 provider staff, 26 percent more than last year. DYCD also conducted 52 stakeholder focus 
groups, a 30 percent increase from Fiscal 2025, integrating community insights into program design including the selection 
of an outcome measurement tool for social and emotional learning in COMPASS NYC programs and system improvements 
for case management programs. The Agency also received 23,299 responses to its triennial Community Needs Assessment, 
demonstrating strong public engagement. DYCD’s Evaluation and Planning teams are finalizing analysis to inform the Agency’s 
community anti-poverty programs and service planning more broadly.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Young people involved in DYCD-funded programs 305,566 335,470 364,171 368,517 378,311 ñ ñ Up Up
 Adults involved in DYCD-funded programs 73,338 80,066 114,711 113,503 118,726 ñ ñ Up Up
Participants who are Black, Indigenous, or People of Color (%) 90% 90% 91% 93% 94% * * Neutral Up
City Council discretionary awards administered through DYCD 1,233 1,471 1,202 1,508 1,749 * * Up *
Community-based organization staff engaged in capacity build -
ing workshops 15,568 12,037 5,774 11,556 14,602 * * Neutral Up
Stakeholder focus groups conducted to inform program design 52 59 97 40 52 * * Down Up
Survey responses for Community Needs Assessment NA 28,491 NA NA 23,299 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Support youth development throughout New York City through the implementation, 
funding and management of contracts with nonprofit service providers.
Goal 2a Engage young people in programs that support and strengthen their overall development.
COMPASS school year enrollment increased four percent to 116,298 and exceeded the target of 112,054. Elementary school 
enrollment increased 12 percent to 52,629 reflecting the addition of 40 new elementary programs, further expanding access 
to high-quality afterschool opportunities. Enrollment in SONYC/middle school summer programs increased 10 percent to 
27,900, as COMPASS providers took on a larger portion of Summer Rising programs than in summer 2024. In summer 
2025, DYCD provided Summer Rising enrichment experiences for 113,376 youth, delivered in partnership with NYC Public 
Schools, exceeding the target of 110,000.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 ® Participants in COMPASS NYC programs —School year 112,441 117,179 116,926 111,868 116,298 112,054 112,054 Neutral *
– Elementary school programs (school year) 46,502 47,992 47,184 47,026 52,629 47,372 47,372 Neutral *
– School’s Out NYC/middle school programs (school year) 62,309 65,075 64,768 62,249 61,305 48,702 48,702 Neutral *
Participants in COMPASS NYC elementary school programs 
(summer) 66,520 75,375 73,449 77,038 80,775 72,000 72,000 Up Up
Participants in COMPASS NYC – School’s Out NYC/middle school 
programs (summer) 28,658 31,170 32,060 25,328 27,900 25,000 25,000 Neutral *
Summer participants in grades K-8 enrolled in Summer Rising 104,014 112,544 115,662 115,048 113,376 110,000 110,000 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 310>>>
Page 298  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2b Engage runaway and homeless youth and young adults in services that connect them with family or 
independent living opportunities.
In Fiscal 2026, DYCD providers of Runaway and Homeless Youth (RHY) services operated 753 beds for youth ages 16 to 20. 
RHY Crisis Services Programs served 1,540 youth, an eight percent increase from Fiscal 2025, and Transitional Independent 
Living (TIL) Support Programs served 1,124 youth, up seven percent from last fiscal year. Crisis Services utilization temporarily 
dipped due to building repairs at one site, however, the program subsequently resumed full operations and continued 
delivering strong outcomes, with 85 percent of youth reunited with family or placed in safe environments. 
DYCD expanded capacity for homeless young adults ages 21 to 24 by 50 beds, bringing the total to 110. Crisis Services 
Programs served 239 young adults, a 72 percent increase from Fiscal 2025, and TIL Support Programs served 87, an 85 
percent increase; both exceeded their targets. DYCD also reached record levels of drop-in case management, serving 2,887 
youth and young adults after opening an additional Drop-In Center in the Bronx. Street outreach made 15,076 contacts 
following temporary staffing boosts in this service area.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Runaway and homeless youth served — Crisis services pro -
grams 1,707 1,827 1,709 1,421 1,540 2,000 2,000 Down *
 Runaway and homeless youth served – Transitional Indepen -
dent Living support programs 1,101 1,133 1,188 1,046 1,124 1,000 1,000 Neutral *
Residential beds for runaway or homeless youth 753 753 753 753 753 753 753 Neutral *
Utilization rate for Crisis Services Programs (% of runaway or 
homeless youth beds) 72% 81% 91% 94% 84% 90% 90% Up Up
Utilization rate for Transitional Independent Living support pro -
grams (% of runaway or homeless youth beds) 73% 75% 92% 95% 94% 90% 90% Up Up
Youth reunited with family or placed in a suitable environment 
from Crisis Services Programs (%) 74% 79% 86% 84% 85% 75% 75% Up Up
Youth reunited with family or placed in a suitable environment 
from Transitional Independent Living support programs (%) 88% 87% 83% 92% 92% 85% 85% Neutral Up
Homeless young adults served – Crisis Services Programs 192 198 179 139 239 150 150 Neutral Up
– Transitional Independent Living support programs 46 46 52 47 87 50 50 Up Up
Residential beds for homeless young adults 60 60 60 60 110 60 160 Up Up
Utilization rate for Crisis Services Programs (% of homeless young 
adult beds) 92% 97% 97% 98% 97% 90% 90% Neutral Up
Utilization rate for Transitional Independent Living support pro -
grams (% of homeless young adult beds) 96% 46% 99% 99% 90% 90% 90% Up Up
Young adults reunited with family or placed in a suitable environ -
ment from Crisis Services Programs (%) 64% 63% 83% 92% 90% 75% 75% Up Up
Young adults reunited with family or placed in a suitable 
environment from Transitional Independent Living (TIL) Support 
Programs (%) 79% 71% 70% 87% 90% 85% 85% Up Up
Youth and young adults who received mental health support 
in a city-funded residential program or drop-in center serving 
runaway and homeless youth 4,317 3,546 5,043 5,172 NA 2,600 2,600 NA *
Youth and young adults served through case management - 
Drop-In Centers 1,930 2,231 2,714 2,269 2,887 1,400 1,400 Up *
Youth served by DYCD street outreach 11,002 13,395 12,186 13,455 15,076 9,600 9,600 Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 311>>>
DEPARTMENT OF YOUTH AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 299
SERVICE 3 Increase youth capacity for economic independence through programs that provide work-
related education, skills training and employment opportunities.
Goal 3a Engage young people in training and employment programs to support career readiness.
DYCD’s flagship Summer Youth Employment Program (SYEP) reached 97,444 participants, setting a new record of service. 
Early application acceptance and targeted outreach to young people residing in NYCHA developments and the six priority 
precincts as well as youth with barriers to employment contributed to a 14 percent increase in worker applications compared 
to Fiscal 2025. Total stipends and wages grew by eight percent to $150.5 million. Combined with other City agencies, SYEP 
once again exceeded the citywide goal of 100,000 summer opportunities for the fourth consecutive year. 
More New Yorkers were able to access other DYCD-funded workforce initiatives as well. DYCD’s federally funded Workforce 
Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) Train & Earn programs enrolled 1,378 participants, a 43 percent increase from Fiscal 
2025, Learn & Earn enrolled 1,190, and Advance & Earn served 1,456 participants, a 22 percent increase—a reflection of 
expanded CBO provider capacity and effective program redesign by offering more in-demand trainings that are aligned 
to the labor market.
Community Resources for Employment and Development Program (CRED) NYC initiative launched in March 2025 to 
deliver workforce programming to New Yorkers ages 18 to 40 who are justice-involved or from high-need communities 
disproportionately impacted by crime and violence. The program provides up to 24 weeks of work readiness and occupational 
skills training in high-demand sectors, paid internships, job placement support and comprehensive wraparound services. 
CRED NYC enrolled 887 participants in Fiscal 2026, an increase of 180 percent from the 317 participants in Fiscal 2025 
when the program launched mid-year. The program is slated for expansion in Fiscal 2027 to serve more participants by 
offering more trainings in existing sectors and new sectors.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Summer Youth Employment Program applications 153,781 167,141 176,390 183,363 209,602 * * Up Up
 ® Participants in Summer Youth Employment Program 74,884 91,270 95,563 97,004 97,444 95,000 95,000 Up *
Total SYEP stipends and wages paid ($000,000) $97.4 $117.7 $124.6 $139.9 $150.5 $124.6 $124.6 Up Up
Participants in Train & Earn (Out-of-School Youth) programs 1,251 1,258 1,152 967 1,378 1,380 1,380 Neutral *
Train & Earn participants who are placed in post-secondary edu -
cation, employment, or advanced training in the second quarter 
after exiting the program (%) 56% 67% 64% NA NA 71% 71% NA Up
Train & Earn participants who attain a recognized postsecondary 
credential or high school equivalency diploma during participa -
tion in or within one year after exiting from the program (%) 69% 71% 66% NA NA 62% 62% NA Up
Participants in Learn & Earn (In-School Youth) programs 1,061 1,064 1,043 1,173 1,190 1,190 1,190 Up *
Learn & Earn participants who are placed in post-secondary 
education, employment, or advanced training during the second 
quarter after exiting the program (%) 63% 78% 79% NA NA 71% 71% NA Up
Learn & Earn participants who attain a recognized post-second -
ary credential or a secondary school diploma during participation 
in or within one year after exiting the program (%) 61% 73% 64% NA NA 62% 62% NA Up
® Participants in Advance & Earn training and internship pro -
grams 948 905 1,152 1,197 1,456 1,380 1,380 Up Up
Advance & Earn participants who are placed in education, em -
ployment, or advanced training within 90 days of cohort end (%) 48% 32% 18% 34% NA * * NA Up
Advance & Earn participants who attain a credential or high 
school equivalency diploma within one year of program enroll -
ment (%) 51% 58% 58% 67% 67% * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 312>>>
Page 300  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 4 Support programs that provide participants with the services needed to increase and tap 
their capacity to strengthen and revitalize the communities of New York City
Goal 4a Engage young people and adults in lower income neighborhoods in community anti-poverty initiatives 
to support and expand their capacity.
Community-based programming funded by DYCD offered an array of neighborhood-centered activities across all five 
boroughs. In Fiscal 2026, DYCD’s anti-poverty initiatives, which respond to community needs, served 9,596 New Yorkers, a 
one percent decrease from Fiscal 2025 and below the target of 10,467. The share of participants achieving target outcomes 
decreased 11 percentage points, from 73 percent to 62 percent, below the 68 percent target. Overall outcomes decreased 
as new and expanded Fatherhood programs began program start-up mid-year in January 2026, which led to less time to 
reach target outcomes. These programs are now positioned for stronger results in the upcoming fiscal year. 
Beacon and Cornerstone community centers continued to play a vital role for community residents of all ages. Beacon 
programs engaged 54,387 youth and 17,060 adults and Cornerstone programs engaged 20,660 youth and 7,424 adults. 
Participation at a wide range of local events remained high, with Beacon youth event attendance increasing three percent 
to 59,213 and adult event attendance increasing seven percent to 73,627 reflecting the importance of community centers 
as a focal point for connection and engagement in the life of residents.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 ® Participants in community anti-poverty programs 12,521 9,647 10,051 9,724 9,596 10,467 10,467 Down *
Community anti-poverty program participants achieving target 
outcomes (%) 68% 67% 75% 73% 62% 68% 68% Neutral Up
Youth participants at Beacon programs – Full fiscal year 29,706 49,210 56,525 53,796 54,387 55,200 55,200 Up *
Youth attendance at Beacon program events – Full fiscal year 34,255 33,363 49,005 57,561 59,213 * * Up *
Youth participants in Beacon programs – Summer 10,295 12,450 14,084 18,730 18,470 9,200 9,200 Up Up
Adult participants in Beacon programs – Full fiscal year 9,417 13,043 16,712 17,353 17,060 9,200 9,200 Up *
Adult attendance in Beacon program events – Full fiscal year 31,084 36,623 65,992 68,612 73,627 * * Up *
Youth participants in Cornerstone programs – Full fiscal year 15,991 17,895 19,065 21,122 20,660 15,796 15,796 Up Up
Youth participants in Cornerstone programs – Summer 7,457 9,160 9,973 10,512 11,856 5,791 5,791 Up Up
Adult participants in Cornerstone programs – Full fiscal year 6,337 7,471 7,074 6,725 7,424 3,582 3,582 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 4b Engage adolescents and adults in programs to increase English literacy skills and basic education 
participation.
In Fiscal 2026, DYCD supported 13,560 participants through programs designed to boost literacy and education skills, 
including through Adult Basic Education/High School Equivalency (ABE/HSE), Basic Education in the Native Language/
English for Speakers of Other Languages (BENL/ESOL), and Adolescent Literacy programs. Of total participants, 57 percent 
demonstrated they met improvement standards, a three percentage point increase from Fiscal 2025 and above the 55 
percent target.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Participants in DYCD-funded English literacy programs 13,983 16,520 18,191 13,429 13,560 14,120 14,120 Neutral *
Participants in DYCD-funded English literacy programs meeting 
standards of improvement in their ability to read, write, and 
speak English (%) 59% 59% 59% 54% 57% 55% 55% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 313>>>
DEPARTMENT OF YOUTH AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 301
Goal 4c Engage immigrants in programs to support their integration into New York City through education, job 
readiness and social services programs.
DYCD-funded services designed to support immigrants reached 2,714 participants, a 15 percent decrease from Fiscal 2025 
and below the target of 3,325, due to unanticipated provider withdrawals. DYCD plans to onboard new organizations 
to restore program capacity. Participants achieving positive outcomes increased nine percentage points to 79 percent, the 
highest result to date and above the 62 percent target. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Participants in immigrant services programs 1,323 1,262 3,073 3,204 2,714 3,325 3,322 Up *
Participants in immigrant services programs achieving positive 
outcomes (%) 65% 49% 64% 70% 79% 62% 62% Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Contracts funded 2,987 3,053 2,238 2,587 2,881 * * Neutral *
Contracts terminated or withdrawn 11 5 10 2 80 0 0 Up *
Value of agency contracts ($000) $809,438 $910,429 $1,195,256 $1,311,015 $1,360,514 * * Up *
Value of intracity agreements ($000) $9,324 $20,254 $22,130 $26,789 $24,966 * * Up *
Fiscal audits conducted 199 221 186 404 179 175 175 Up *
Expenditure report reviews 26,416 26,881 20,973 14,995 20,973 * * Down *
 Programmatic reviews/contract monitoring 6,716 8,179 8,555 9,062 10,569 * * Up *
Agency assessments completed for the prior fiscal year NA NA 1,343 1,174 785 * * NA *
 Agency assessments completed for the prior fiscal 
year as a percent of total agency contracts (%) NA NA 86% 93% 58% 70% 70% NA Up
Human services contracts NA NA NA 726 NA * * NA *
Human services contract registration within 30 days of 
the contract start date (%) NA NA NA 72% NA * * NA Up
Total dollars disbursed for human services contracts 
($000,000) NA NA NA $824.01 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Calls to Community Connect NA NA NA 31,348 31,252 * * NA Up
Calls answered within 30 seconds (%) NA NA NA NA NA * * NA Up
Completed requests for interpretation NA NA NA 1,408 782 * * NA *
Agency participants surveyed for overall participant 
satisfaction 9,785 19,351 15,911 19,440 21,742 * * Up Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 314>>>
Page 302  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $971.6 $1,126.5 $1,291.7 $1,349.3 $1,525.8 $1,548.3 $1,801.4 Up
Personnel 480 505 572 605 711 753 731 Up
Overtime paid ($000) $233 $369 $171 $91 $153 $154 $153 Down
Human services contract budget ($000,000) $768.8 $868.4 $1,021.7 $1,036.2 $1,311.8 $1,298.4 $1,379.8 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $59.5 $64.5 
        002 - Executive and Administrative $29.6 $28.5 All
        105 - Youth Workforce and Career Training $7.9 $7.6 All
        311 - Program Services $20.2 $24.3 All
        401 - Neighborhood Safety $1.9 $4.1 All
Other Than Personal Services - Total $1,289.8 $1,461.3 
        005 - Community Development $129.3 $161.2 1a, 4a, 4b, 4c
        106 - Youth Workforce and Career Training $305.3 $317.7 1a, 3a
        204 - Runaway and Homeless Youth $53.4 $63.3 1a,2b
        312 - Other than Personal Services $636.9 $730.2 All
        402 - Neighborhood Safety $164.9 $188.9 1a, 3a, 4a
Agency Total $1,349.3 $1,525.8 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Sandra Escamilla-Davies was appointed as Commissioner of the Department of Youth and Community Development 
in January 2026. 
• The previously published figures for the indicator ‘Young people involved in DYCD-funded programs’ in Goal 1a have 
been updated based on underlying data updates:
 − Fiscal 2022 from 306,241 to 305,566
 − Fiscal 2023 from 336,202 to 335,470
 − Fiscal 2024 from 365,345 to 364,171
 − Fiscal 2025 from 378,445 to 368,517
<<<PAGE 315>>>
DEPARTMENT OF YOUTH AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 303
• Previously published figures for the indicator ‘Youth and young adults served through case management - Drop-In 
Centers’ in Goal 2b have been updated after further data review:
 − Fiscal 2024 from 2,829 to 2,714
 − Fiscal 2025 from 2,588 to 2,269
• The previously published target for the indicator ‘Residential beds for runaway and homeless youth’ was erroneously 
reported as 160 for Fiscal 2026 and Fiscal 2027 and revised to the correct target of 753.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Residential beds for homeless young adults’ in Goal 2b was revised from 60 to 160 to reflect 
funding for 100 additional beds. 
• Due to a data issue, the Fiscal 2026 figure for ‘Youth and young adults who received mental health support in a city-
funded residential program or drop-in center serving runaway and homeless youth’ in Goal 2b is not available. 
• The Fiscal 2026 figures for the following Goal 3a indicators come from the New York State Department of Labor and 
are not yet available. 
 − ‘Train & Earn participants who are placed in post-secondary education, employment, or advanced training in the 
second quarter after exiting the program (%)’ 
 − ‘Train & Earn participants who attain a recognized postsecondary credential or high school equivalency diploma 
during participation in or within one year after exiting from the program (%)’ 
 − ‘Learn & Earn participants who are placed in post-secondary education, employment, or advanced training during 
the second quarter after exiting the program (%)’ 
 − ‘Learn & Earn participants who attain a recognized post-secondary credential or a secondary school diploma during 
participation in or within one year after exiting the program (%)’ 
 − ‘Advance & Earn participants who are placed in education, employment, or advanced training within 90 days of 
cohort end (%)’ 
 − ‘Advance & Earn participants who attain a credential or high school equivalency diploma within 1 year of program 
enrollment (%)’
• The previously published figures for the indicator ‘Participants in Train & Earn (Out-of-School Youth) programs’ in Goal 
3a have been updated based on an updated definition:
 − Fiscal 2022 from 1,506 to 1,251
 − Fiscal 2023 from 1,600 to 1,258 
 − Fiscal 2024 from 1,635 to 1,152 
 − Fiscal 2025 from 1,350 to 967 
• The previously published figures for the indicator ‘Participants in Learn & Earn (In-School Youth) programs’ in Goal 3a 
have been updated based on an updated definition:
 − Fiscal 2022 from 1,486 to 1,061 
 − Fiscal 2023 from 1,408 to 1,064 
 − Fiscal 2024 from 1,587 to 1,043 
 − Fiscal 2025 from 1,903 to 1,173 
<<<PAGE 316>>>
Page 304  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
• The previously published figures for the indicator ‘Advance & Earn participants who are placed in education, employment, 
or advanced training within 90 days of cohort end (%)’ in Goal 3a have been updated based on an updated definition:
 − Fiscal 2022 from 40% to 48% 
 − Fiscal 2023 from 26% to 32% 
 − Fiscal 2024 from 26% to 18% 
 − Fiscal 2025 from NA to 34% 
• The previously published figures for the indicator ‘Advance & Earn participants who attain a credential or high school 
equivalency diploma within one year of program enrollment (%)’ in Goal 3a have been updated based on an updated 
definition:
 − Fiscal 2022 from 40% to 51% 
 − Fiscal 2023 from 52% to 58% 
 − Fiscal 2024 from 38% to 58%
 − Fiscal 2025 from NA to 67%
• Previously published Fiscal 2025 figure for the indicator ‘Youth participants at Beacon programs – Full fiscal year’ in Goal 
4a was updated from 62,292 to 53,796 after further data review.
• Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Participants in DYCD-funded English literacy programs’ in Goal 4b was revised from 13,714 to 
14,120 based on contracted service levels. 
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• To explore program locations and apply for services, please visit: 
https://discoverdycd.dycdconnect.nyc/
• For more information on the Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC:  
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/dycd.
<<<PAGE 317>>>
PUBLIC LIBRARIES 
Linda E. Johnson, President — Brooklyn Public Library System  
Dennis M. Walcott, President — Queens Public Library System   
Anthony W. Marx, President — New York Public Library System
PUBLIC LIBRARIES  |  Page 305
WHAT WE DO
The City’s three independent library 
systems (the Libraries): Brooklyn 
Public Library (BPL), New York Public 
Library (NYPL), and Queens Public 
Library (QPL), provide a wide range 
of free library services to all New 
Yorkers. 
The Libraries oversee 220 local 
library locations across the five 
boroughs of New York City, 
including five research library 
centers. The Libraries offer free and 
open access to books, periodicals, 
non-print materials, electronic 
resources, mobile and streaming 
technology, and the internet. They 
also provide reference and career 
services, professional development, 
and educational, cultural, and 
recreational programming for 
adults, young adults, and children. 
The Libraries’ collections include 
377 electronic databases and more 
than 65 million books, periodicals, 
and other circulating and reference 
items.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
As part of the City’s social infrastructure, the Brooklyn Public Library, New York 
Public Library, and Queens Public Library prioritize equitable access to resources 
for patrons across all five City boroughs. The commitment to equity starts with 
collections. There are vast disparities in access and exposure to books among 
homes and communities across the City, especially for children in lower-income 
neighborhoods who are less likely to read at grade level. The Libraries invest in 
robust collections, as well as book giveaways that serve children in low-income 
neighborhoods and book deserts, areas where reading materials are difficult to 
obtain. In addition, the Libraries offer collections that reflect the interests and 
needs of the diverse communities they serve. To encourage New Yorkers’ ongoing 
use of their branches and ensure that everyone has access to resources no matter 
their circumstances, the Libraries do not charge late fines on overdue materials. 
Library programs and services, particularly those centered on education, further 
advance the Libraries’ focus on equity. Through programs like storytimes, family 
literacy workshops, and Pre-K partnerships, the Libraries have established 
themselves as the leading providers of early literacy programming and services in 
the City. All three systems conduct vital after-school programming, which helps 
students in historically disadvantaged neighborhoods keep pace with their more 
affluent peers. Young adult patrons have access to Teen Centers, college and 
career readiness counseling, one-on-one tutoring, and other innovative programs 
to promote learning and development in safe and inclusive spaces. 
Equity is integral to the Libraries’ adult offerings as well, including financial literacy 
resources, one-on-one career services, and technology classes that help patrons 
develop professional competencies such as coding and website development. 
These services are particularly valuable for New Yorkers who are searching for 
jobs, seeking to build their professional skills, or impacted by the digital divide—
the gap between those who have access to and can effectively use information 
and communication technologies and those who lack such access. To support 
New Yorkers without access to a computer or internet at home, the Libraries 
offer computers and WiFi for public use. In addition to in-person programming 
and services, the three systems offer virtual classes and online resources, which 
allow the Libraries to reach individuals who are unable to visit their local branch. 
In partnership with the New York City Office of Technology and Innovation, the 
three library systems launched Neighborhood Tech Help, a program that provides 
in-person, one-on-one support to help New Yorkers in underserved communities 
improve their technology skills. 
<<<PAGE 318>>>
Page 306  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Demand for library services remains high across all three systems. In Fiscal 
2026, program attendance at BPL remained steady compared to Fiscal 
2025, growing slightly from 840,287 attendees to 843,581 attendees. 
Program attendance at NYPL—Branch rose 10 percent, from 1,239,847 
in Fiscal 2025 to 1,365,681 in Fiscal 2026. Similarly, QPL’s program 
attendance rose 11 percent, from 964,018 in Fiscal 2025 to 1,071,432 
in Fiscal 2026. Both active library cards and new library card registrations 
also rose across all three systems. Additionally, electronic visits to the 
three Libraries’ respective websites increased substantially—35 percent 
for BPL to 13.1 million visits, 114 percent for NYPL to 51.8 million visits, 
and 52 percent for QPL to 7.5 million visits, although each system has 
acknowledged an increase in bot traffic over the last fiscal year. 
The City’s public libraries provide vital resources for immigrants such as 
English for Speakers of Other Languages (ESOL) and civics classes. Across 
the three library systems, programs such as digital literacy classes, book 
discussions, storytimes, financial literacy workshops, computer classes, 
“Know Your Rights” forums, health and wellness programs, and cultural events are offered in over 20 languages, depending 
on the service and location. Programs may be offered in Arabic, American Sign Language, Bengali, Cantonese, English, 
French, Haitian Creole, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, Nepali, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish, Tagalog, Urdu, 
Yiddish, and more. Through a collaboration with the Mayor’s Office of Immigrant Affairs, library staff were trained to 
launch and lead classes at English Learning and Support Centers at select branches, a partnership which has since been 
renewed and expanded.
The Libraries’ commitment to equity yields a credibility and trust that make them strong partners for the public, City 
agencies, and community-based organizations on a wide range of initiatives. Libraries function as cooling centers, voting 
locations, mask distribution sites, and dependable spaces for community outreach for elected officials and government 
agencies. The three systems’ credibility, along with their reach, make the Libraries a valuable partner for civic engagement 
and voter education initiatives, including distribution of voter education materials and trainings with the City’s Campaign 
Finance Board on voting protocols as part of their NYC Votes program. Libraries are also a critical partner to the New York 
City Civic Engagement Commission and the New York City Council’s Participatory Budgeting initiatives, which play an 
important role in engaging communities in budgeting decisions.
Providing trusted, safe, and reliable spaces for all New Yorkers is key to encouraging patrons’ engagement with library 
programs and services. All three systems work diligently, with limited resources, to renovate existing branches and build 
new locations when possible, balancing the needs of each neighborhood while prioritizing urgent building repairs. The 
Libraries assess the conditions and needs of every branch, particularly regarding critical infrastructure, to ensure buildings 
are properly and equitably cooled, heated, and accessible.
The Libraries continue to be spaces that are uniquely equipped to advance equity in New York City. Whether as a student 
taking advantage of a Teen Center, an adult building a new professional skill set, a toddler discovering the joys of storytime, 
or an immigrant seeking vital resources to navigate their transition to New York City, every New Yorker can count on their 
libraries for access to the tools, resources, and growth opportunities they need to find success in their lives.
Program Attendance
FY26FY25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Program Attendance and 
Program Sessions at Library Systems 
99,844
2,633,905
196,139
3,150,581
220,134
3,280,694
Program Sessions
253,033
1,535,356
3,198,980
232,059
<<<PAGE 319>>>
PUBLIC LIBRARIES  |  Page 307
BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average weekly scheduled hours 47.0 47.0 48.0 48.0 48.0 * * Neutral *
Libraries open seven days per week (%) 11% 11% 8% 13% 13% * * Up Up
 Libraries open six days per week (%) 100% 100% 100% 98% 83% * * Down *
 Circulation (000) 9,318 9,867 9,570 9,786 10,457 9,600 9,600 Neutral Up
Reference queries (000) 446 71 34 2,884 2,978 * * Up Up
Electronic visits to website (000) 3,008 3,859 5,089 9,733 13,105 4,000 4,000 Up Up
Computers for public use 2,586 2,600 3,208 3,208 2,347 * * Neutral Up
Computer sessions (000) 331 602 790 839 733 * * Up Up
Wireless sessions NA NA 2,108,600 1,685,161 1,583,140 * * NA Up
Program sessions 25,383 55,767 73,337 83,631 86,626 * * Up Up
 Program attendance 387,494 596,753 816,216 840,287 843,581 * * Up *
 Library card holders (000) 1,472 1,409 1,581 1,728 1,591 1,500 1,500 Up Up
Active library cards (000) 494 591 604 662 697 * * Up *
New library card registrations 143,441 180,069 238,926 202,833 209,565 * * Up *
 Total library attendance (000) 2,979 4,064 5,984 6,035 5,842 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY—BRANCH
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average weekly scheduled hours 48.4 48.4 48.0 49.0 49.0 * * Neutral *
Libraries open seven days per week (%) 8% 8% 0% 8% 14% * * Up Up
 Libraries open six days per week (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 91% * * Neutral *
 Circulation (000) 14,310 16,530 17,168 17,006 17,951 16,000 17,000 Up Up
Reference queries (000) 3,801 4,231 4,614 5,043 5,131 * * Up Up
Electronic visits to website (000) 26,015 23,449 28,333 24,160 51,810 20,000 20,000 Up Up
Computers for public use 3,748 4,409 4,409 5,012 4,862 * * Up Up
Computer sessions (000) 929 1,222 1,370 1,529 1,556 * * Up Up
Wireless sessions 591,454 1,353,853 2,402,971 2,680,733 2,738,082 * * Up Up
Program sessions 43,103 84,154 88,586 90,447 103,917 * * Up Up
 Program attendance 505,595 1,031,424 1,216,843 1,239,847 1,365,681 * * Up *
 Library card holders (000) 2,111 2,075 2,310 2,375 2,444 2,100 2,300 Up Up
Active library cards (000) 722 867 1,327 1,404 1,544 * * Up *
New library card registrations 295,448 407,167 444,783 429,029 459,638 * * Up *
 Total library attendance (000) 5,346 7,341 8,006 8,789 8,941 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 320>>>
Page 308  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY—RESEARCH
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average weekly scheduled hours 49.4 51.0 49.7 51.0 51.0 * * Neutral *
Libraries open seven days per week (%) 33% 33% 0% 33% 33% * * Neutral Up
 Libraries open six days per week (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral *
Reference queries (000) 112 272 278 294 297 * * Up Up
Program sessions 2,623 3,062 2,812 3,064 3,691 * * Up Up
 Program attendance 101,663 126,555 151,468 154,828 163,414 * * Up *
 Total library attendance (000) 1,796 3,456 3,953 4,202 4,356 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
QUEENS PUBLIC LIBRARY
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average weekly scheduled hours 37.8 44.3 45.0 45.0 45.0 * * Up *
Libraries open seven days per week (%) 1% 3% 1% 5% 11% * * Up Up
 Libraries open six days per week (%) 55% 86% 90% 92% 87% * * Up *
 Circulation (000) 6,738 7,719 8,698 10,875 11,508 7,000 9,000 Up Up
Reference queries (000) 714 1,028 1,206 1,272 1,257 * * Up Up
Electronic visits to website (000) 3,354 3,248 3,498 4,943 7,510 3,500 4,000 Up Up
Computers for public use 6,095 5,174 4,275 3,268 3,268 * * Down Up
Computer sessions (000) 495 732 840 982 1,012 * * Up Up
Wireless sessions 466,572 583,803 1,755,367 2,656,581 2,470,527 * * Up Up
Program sessions 28,735 53,156 55,399 54,917 58,529 * * Up Up
 Program attendance 540,604 879,173 966,054 964,018 1,071,432 * * Up *
 Library card holders (000) 1,457 1,548 1,541 1,655 1,494 1,500 1,500 Neutral Up
Active library cards (000) 869 726 716 746 849 * * Neutral *
New library card registrations 55,286 92,854 103,778 114,944 117,810 * * Up *
 Total library attendance (000) 3,945 5,676 6,332 6,586 6,335 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $431.0 $473.1 $461.6 $507.6 $539.8 $527.3 $538.1 Up
Personnel 3,889 4,108 4,043 4,217 4,272 4,311 4,403 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $142.1 $73.2 $149.9 $200.1 $163.3 $294.9 $327.9 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 321>>>
PUBLIC LIBRARIES  |  Page 309
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION
Agency expenditures and planned resources by budgetary unit of appropriation.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000)
Brooklyn Public Library, 001 - Lump Sum Appropriation (OTPS) 1 $141.4 $149.8 
New York Public Library - Branch, Agency Total 1 $185.7 $196.6 
       003 - Lump Sum - Borough of Manhattan (OTPS) $26.4 $26.7 
       004 - Lump Sum - Borough of the Bronx (OTPS) $24.6 $24.8 
       005 - Lump Sum - Borough of Staten Island (OTPS) $11.1 $11.1 
       006 - Systemwide Services (OTPS) $122.3 $132.6 
       007 - Consultant and Advisory Services (OTPS) $1.4 $1.4 
New York Public Library - Research, 001 - Lump Sum Appropriation (OTPS) 1 $35.8 $38.9 
Queens Public Library, 001 - Lump Sum Appropriation (OTPS) 1 $144.6 $154.5 
1These figures are limited to the City’s contribution and planned contribution respectively .   2Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR)  for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 
2025. Includes all funds.  
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• The previously published Fiscal 2025 figure for ‘Total library attendance’ at New York Public Library—Branch was revised 
from 8,695,000 to 8,789,000 and at New York Public Library—Research from 4,201,000 to 4,202,000 after a review 
of historical data.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Circulation’ in New York Public Library—Branch was raised from 16,000,000 to 17,000,000.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Library card holders’ in New York Public Library—Branch was raised from 2,100,000 to 
2,300,000.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Circulation’ in Queens Public Library—Branch was raised from 7,000,000 to 9,000,000.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Electronic visits to the website’ in Queens Public Library—Branch was raised from 3,500,000 
to 4,000,000.
• ‘Libraries open six days per week (%)’ fell across the Libraries due to a change in methodology; the Libraries are now 
including branches closed for long-term renovations in this calculation.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• NYC Civic Engagement Commission and City Council’s Participatory Budgeting Initiative: 
https://council.nyc.gov/pb/
For more information on these libraries, please visit: 
• Brooklyn Public Library: www.bklynlibrary.org.
• New York Public Library: www.nypl.org.
• Queens Public Library: www.queenslibrary.org.
<<<PAGE 322>>>
Page 310  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 323>>>
CITY UNIVERSITY OF  
NEW YORK Félix V. Matos Rodríguez, Chancellor
CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK  |  Page 311
WHAT WE DO
The City University of New York 
(CUNY) provides higher education to 
more than 246,500 degree and non-
degree-seeking students and offers 
adult and continuing education with 
over 178,800 course registrations. 
CUNY consists of 26 institutions: 11 
senior colleges, seven community 
colleges, and eight graduate, honors, 
and professional schools offering over 
70 doctoral programs. CUNY enrolls 
students in over 2,850 academic 
programs, and has over 7,000 full-
time faculty and over 12,000 part-time 
faculty. In the 2024–2025 academic 
year, CUNY granted nearly 9,300 
graduate and professional degrees, 
over 22,000 baccalaureate degrees, 
over 11,700 associate degrees, over 
500 certificates, and nearly 1,100 
advanced certificates.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
CUNY is an important vehicle for the upward mobility of New Yorkers. Six CUNY 
senior colleges ranked among the top 10 universities for social mobility (North 
region), with Baruch College and Hunter College both ranked number one. CUNY 
serves a diverse population, with 32 percent of students born outside the mainland 
United States and almost three in four undergraduate students attending tuition-
free. In the academic year 2024–2025, over 44,700 new CUNY graduates entered 
the workforce or began work on more advanced degrees. 
With funding from the City, CUNY runs the Accelerated Study in Associate 
Programs (ASAP) initiative, which provides financial resources and other barrier 
breaking supports to associate degree students. ASAP has more than doubled 
associate degree completion rates for participating students, aiming to graduate 
at least 50 percent of students in three years. ASAP is now considered a national 
model, receiving the distinguished 2020 Innovations in American Government 
Award from the Center for Democratic Governance and Innovation at Harvard 
University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government, and has been replicated 
across nine states at nearly 70 institutions. In the 2025–2026 academic year, ASAP 
enrolled 23,536 students, 11,522 of whom were new students. The program has 
served over 125,000 students since its launch in 2007.
ASAP students are diverse and representative of the larger population of CUNY 
associate degree-seeking students. Based on the most current available data, of the 
students served in the 2025-2026 academic year, 37 percent identified as Hispanic, 
37 percent Black, 14 percent Asian/Pacific Islander, and 11 percent White. Eighty 
three percent of ASAP students receive either or both the federal Pell and New York 
State Tuition Assistance Program grants. In addition, ASAP serves as an important 
entry point to CUNY’s senior colleges, with nearly 70 percent of ASAP graduates 
transferring to a baccalaureate program within four years of entering ASAP .
<<<PAGE 324>>>
Page 312  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Provide access to higher education.
Goal 1a Increase enrollment and retention.
Goal 1b Increase access to higher education through improving affordability.
SERVICE 2 Improve student outcomes.
Goal 2a Promote academic excellence and provide student support.
Goal 2b Increase graduation rates.
Goal 2c Prepare students for professional success.
<<<PAGE 325>>>
CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK  |  Page 313
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Provide access to higher education.
Goal 1a Increase enrollment and retention.
Total headcount enrollment increased four percent, from 237,671 in 
Fiscal 2025 to 246,503 in Fiscal 2026. At the community colleges, 
total enrollment increased seven percent, from 76,432 to 81,883. 
First-time freshman enrollment at both community and senior 
colleges increased, with community college freshman enrollment 
increasing 10 percent from 13,167 to 14,433 and senior college 
freshman enrollment increasing one percent from 22,323 to 22,543. 
The one-year retention rates of freshmen pursuing associate and 
baccalaureate degrees both increased from 61.5 percent to 68.7 
percent and from 83.2 percent to 85.4 percent, respectively. Total 
ASAP enrollment increased by four percent, from 22,537 in Fiscal 
2025 to 23,536 in Fiscal 2026. The one-year program retention rate 
of ASAP students increased over three percentage points, from 61.9 
percent to 65.5 percent, during the same reporting period. 
Enrollment of first-time freshmen in CUNY community colleges 
who are recent graduates of NYC public high schools increased 
10 percent, from 8,688 in Fiscal 2025 to 9,582 in Fiscal 2026. This 
tracks with 10 percent in overall freshmen enrollment at community 
colleges.
The proportion of full-time students enrolled in partially or totally online courses slightly decreased one percentage point 
from 38.4 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 37.5 percent. CUNY continued to grow its remote options to promote accessibility. 
The number of degree programs that can be completed fully online increased to 223 by Fiscal 2026, a remarkable growth 
from 80 programs in Fiscal 2022.   
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Total Students Served in CUNY
Accelerated Study in Associate Programs (ASAP)
21,465
23,536
20,427 20,309
22,537
<<<PAGE 326>>>
Page 314  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
® Total headcount enrollment 243,389 225,881 233,352 237,671 246,503 * * Neutral *
Total full-time equivalent enrollment 181,034 166,813 172,520 175,011 180,016 * * Neutral *
Total headcount enrollment at CUNY community colleges 73,031 67,584 74,636 76,432 81,883 * * Up *
Enrollment in STEM disciplines at CUNY community colleges 11,519 10,483 11,323 11,280 11,301 * * Neutral Up
Enrollment of first-time freshmen in CUNY community colleges 12,932 12,396 13,681 13,167 14,433 * * Up *
Enrollment of first-time freshmen in CUNY senior colleges 21,787 22,161 22,538 22,323 22,543 * * Neutral *
Enrollment of first-time freshmen in CUNY community colleges who 
are recent graduates of NYC public high schools 8,811 8,685 9,274 8,688 9,582 * * Neutral *
One-year (fall-to-fall) retention rate of full-time first-time freshmen 
enrolled in CUNY associate degree programs (%) 59.1% 60.2% 62.3% 61.5% 68.7% * * Up Up
One-year (fall-to-fall) retention rate of full-time first-time freshmen 
enrolled in CUNY baccalaureate degree programs (%) 81.0% 80.4% 83.1% 83.2% 85.4% * * Neutral Up
One-year program retention rate of ASAP students (%) 62.4% 60.4% 58.8% 61.9% 65.5% * * Neutral Up
Total students served in CUNY Accelerated Study in Associate 
Programs 20,427 20,309 21,465 22,537 23,536 * * Up Up
Students who transferred from a CUNY senior college to a non-
CUNY college (%) 1.6% 2.1% 1.8% 1.7% 1.7% * * Neutral *
Students who transferred from a CUNY community college to a 
non-CUNY college (%) 2.0% 2.5% 2.3% 2.2% 2.2% * * Neutral *
Students who transferred from a CUNY community college to 
another CUNY college (%) 12.6% 11.5% 11.1% 10.9% 11.4% * * Neutral *
Students who leave a CUNY college and do not continue their 
education elsewhere (%) 18.4% 20.8% 18.7% 19.3% 19.1% * * Neutral Down
CUNY associate degree recipients who transfer to a CUNY bac -
calaureate program within one year (%) 51.5% 46.3% 47.9% 49.8% 49.0% * * Neutral Up
Instructional (student) full-time equivalencies enrolled in partially or 
totally online courses (%) 90.3% 40.9% 38.1% 38.4% 37.5% * * Down Up
Degree programs that can be completed fully online 80 94 158 218 223 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Increase access to higher education through improving affordability.
In Fiscal 2026, tuition remained the same at $4,800 for the community colleges and $6,930 for the senior colleges. There 
was a slight decrease in the percentage of community college students receiving federal financial aid, from 59.9 percent 
in Fiscal 2025 to 58.6 percent in Fiscal 2026. There was also an increase in the percentage of community college students 
receiving New York State financial aid though the Tuition Assistance program, from 36.6 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 41.8 
percent in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Annual tuition at CUNY community colleges (full-time NYS resident) $4,800 $4,800 $4,800 $4,800 $4,800 * * Neutral *
Annual tuition at CUNY senior colleges (full-time NYS resident) $6,930 $6,930 $6,930 $6,930 $6,930 * * Neutral *
Expenditures per student (full-time equivalent) at CUNY community 
colleges $21,157 $23,686 $21,500 $23,678 $23,727 * * Neutral *
CUNY community college students receiving federal financial aid (Pell) 
(%) 55.6% 57.6% 57.7% 59.9% 58.6% * * Neutral *
CUNY community college students receiving Tuition Assistance Program 
grants (%) 25.7% 28.9% 32.8% 36.6% 41.8% * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 327>>>
CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK  |  Page 315
SERVICE 2 Improve student outcomes.
Goal 2a Promote academic excellence and provide student support.
The percentage of instructional (student) full-time equivalencies taught by full-time faculty decreased at both senior and 
community colleges, from 40.9 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 39.7 percent in Fiscal 2026 at the senior colleges and from 60.5 
percent to 58.9 percent at the community colleges. Overall student/faculty ratio rose slightly from 24:1 in Fiscal 2025 to 
25:1 in Fiscal 2026, remaining at 24:1 for the senior colleges, and rising from 24:1 to 26:1 at the community colleges.
The proportion of students completing Gateway courses in English and math in their first year were mixed in Fiscal 2026 
compared to Fiscal 2025, with students in Gateway English increasing from 81.8 percent to 83.6 percent, while those in 
Gateway Math declined from 62.6 percent to 61.0 percent. 
Enrollment in College Now declined slightly, from 44,485 enrolled in Fiscal 2025 to 44,261 in Fiscal 2026, according to 
preliminary data. College Now is a free college transition, dual enrollment program for New York City Public Schools (NYCPS) 
high school students. College Now enables NYCPS high school students to develop academic momentum toward a college 
degree, make informed choices about college, and learn how their education can lead to a rewarding career.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Instructional (student) full-time equivalencies taught by full-time 
faculty (%) – Senior colleges 38.1% 36.0% 38.1% 40.9% 39.7% * * Neutral Up
– Community colleges 54.2% 57.5% 61.2% 60.5% 58.9% * * Neutral Up
Student/faculty ratio – Overall 25:1 23:1 23:1 24:1 25:1 * * Neutral Down
– Community colleges 24:1 21:1 24:1 24:1 26:1 * * Up Down
– Senior colleges 26:1 23:1 23:1 24:1 24:1 * * Neutral Down
Full-time faculty employed by CUNY community colleges 2,014 2,055 2,039 2,000 1,969 * * Neutral Up
Students completing Gateway English in their first year (%) 72.5% 75.2% 74.7% 81.8% 83.6% * * Up Up
Students completing Gateway Math in their first year (%) 55.0% 57.9% 56.7% 62.6% 61.0% * * Up Up
High school students participating in college preparation program 
(College Now) 32,761 34,710 40,505 44,485 44,261 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Increase graduation rates.
Associate degrees awarded at the community colleges increased five percent, from 9,384 in Fiscal 2025 to 9,865 in Fiscal 
2026. The six-year system graduation rate decreased from 36.5 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 35.5 percent in Fiscal 2026 for 
associate students and from 57.9 percent to 56.6 percent for baccalaureate students during the same reporting period. 
Three-year graduation rates among ASAP students also declined from 38.5 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 34.5 percent in Fiscal 
2026. Six year graduation rate declines are still affected by the COVID-19 pandemic disruption, and also reflect changes 
in the freshman class composition. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Associate degrees awarded at community colleges 14,900 12,364 10,342 9,384 9,865 * * Down Up
 ® Three-year systemwide graduation rate (%) – CUNY Acceler -
ated Study in Associate Programs students 44.0% 39.4% 36.2% 38.5% 34.5% ñ ñ Down Up
Six-year systemwide graduation rate (%) – Community college 
students in STEM disciplines 37.5% 38.6% 36.7% 35.6% 33.9% * * Down Up
 ® Six-year systemwide graduation rate (%) – CUNY associate 
degree students 38.9% 39.8% 37.6% 36.5% 35.5% ñ ñ Down Up
 ® Six-year systemwide graduation rate (%) – CUNY baccalaure -
ate students 62.0% 61.9% 60.0% 57.9% 56.6% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 328>>>
Page 316  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2c Prepare students for professional success.
Pass rates for the National Council Licensure Examination for Registered Nurses declined, from 89.6 percent in Fiscal 
2025 to 84.9 percent in Fiscal 2026. There was also a decline in the percentage of CUNY community college certificate 
and associate graduates from career and technical education programs who are employed six months after graduation, 
from 70.8 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 67.2 percent in Fiscal 2026. When combined with continued education, the outcome 
remained steady at 99.0 percent.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Students passing the National Council Licensure Examination for 
Registered Nurses (%) (CY) 85.3% 78.9% 89.1% 89.6% 84.9% * * Neutral Up
CUNY community college certificate and associate graduates from 
career and technical education programs who are employed six 
months after graduation (%) 69.8% 75.3% 75.3% 70.8% 67.2% * * Neutral Up
CUNY community college certificate and associate graduates from 
career and technical education programs who are employed or 
continuing their education six months after graduation (%) 92.2% 97.8% 99.1% 99.1% 99.0% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $1,396.7 $1,269.7 $1,281.9 $1,409.0 $1,643.6 $1,627.8 $1,643.1 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $194.8 $210.3 $214.7 $287.7 $249.4 $365.3 $415.3 Neutral
Personnel 7,472 7,249 7,618 8,008 8,148 9,379 9,375 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $2.9 $7.3 $8.3 $9.9 $4.2 $4.2 $3.6 Neutral
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION
Agency expenditures and planned resources by budgetary unit of appropriation.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $951.4 $1,046.7
        002 - Community College $928.7 $1,023.4 All
        004 - Hunter Schools $22.7 $23.3 All
Other Than Personal Services - Total $457.6 $597.0
        001 - Community College $456.4 $560.6 All
        003 - Hunter Schools $1.2 $1.4 All
        012 - Senior College $0.0 $35.0 All
Agency Total $1,409.0 $1,643.6
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.     “NA” Not Available
<<<PAGE 329>>>
CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK  |  Page 317
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Félix V. Matos Rodríguez continues to serve as Chancellor of the City University of New York.
• The indicators ‘One-year program retention rate of ASAP students (%)’ and ‘Students who leave a CUNY college and 
do not continue their education elsewhere’ were added in Goal 1a. 
• Previously published figures for the indicator ‘Enrollment of first-time freshmen in CUNY community colleges who are 
recent graduates of NYC public high schools’ in Goal 1a were revised after internal data review:
 − Fiscal 2022 figure was revised from 9,451 to 8,811.
 − Fiscal 2023 figure was revised from 9,128 to 8,685.
 − Fiscal 2024 figure was revised from 10,052 to 9,274. 
 − Fiscal 2025 figure was revised from 9,622 to 8,688.
• Previously published figures for the indicator ‘Degree programs that can be completed fully online’ in Goal 1a were 
revised after internal data review:
 − Fiscal 2023 figure was revised from 163 to 94.
 − Fiscal 2024 figure was revised from 195 to 158. 
 − Fiscal 2025 figure was revised from 196 to 218.
• Previously published Fiscal 2025 actual figure for the indicator ‘Expenditures per student (full-time equivalent) at CUNY 
community colleges’ in Goal 1b was revised from $23,021 to $23,678. 
• Previously published Fiscal 2023 figure for the indicator ‘Student/faculty ratio—Overall’ in Goal 2a was revised from 
22:1 to 23:1 after internal data review. 
• Previously published Fiscal 2025 actual figures for the following indicators in Goal 2a were revised after internal data 
review:
 − ‘Instructional (student) full-time equivalencies taught by full-time faculty (%)—Senior colleges’ was revised from 
40.8 percent to 40.9 percent. 
 − ‘Instructional (student) full-time equivalencies taught by full-time faculty (%)—Community colleges’ was revised 
from 60.4 percent to 60.5 percent.
 − ‘Students completing Gateway English in their first year (%)’ was revised from 81.2 percent to 81.8 percent. 
 − ‘Students completing Gateway Math in their first year (%)’ was revised from 61.3 percent to 62.6 percent.
• Previously published figures for the indicator ‘High school students participating in college preparation program (College 
Now)’ in Goal 2a were revised after internal data review:
 − Fiscal 2022 figure was revised from 32,166 to 32,761.
 − Fiscal 2023 figure was revised from 34,625 to 34,710.
 − Fiscal 2024 figure was revised from 39,999 to 40,505.
 − Fiscal 2025 figure was revised from 44,507 to 44,485. 
<<<PAGE 330>>>
Page 318  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Office of Applied Research, Evaluation, and Data Analytics: 
https://www.cuny.edu/about/administration/offices/oareda/
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.cuny.edu.
<<<PAGE 331>>>
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS SERVICES
Kenny Minaya, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS SERVICES  |  Page 319
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Small Business 
Services (SBS) helps unlock economic 
potential and create economic 
security for all New Yorkers by 
connecting them to good jobs, 
creating stronger businesses, and 
building thriving neighborhoods 
across the five boroughs. SBS runs 
NYC Business Solutions Centers to 
help entrepreneurs start, operate, 
and expand their businesses. The 
Agency also operates Workforce1 
Career Centers to connect New 
Yorkers with career counseling, 
workforce training, and good jobs. 
SBS disburses grants and provides 
services to support the growth of 
local community and economic 
development organizations 
throughout the City and oversees 
the largest network of Business 
Improvement Districts (BIDs) in 
the country. SBS also administers 
the City’s Minority and Women 
owned Business Enterprise (M/WBE) 
certification program, provides 
technical support to M/WBEs 
seeking to contract with the City, 
and cultivates business growth in key 
sectors.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
SBS is dedicated to promoting economic development and enhancing economic 
mobility. SBS actively collaborates with New Yorkers, with a special focus on 
historically underserved neighborhoods and communities, to create programs 
and services that advance economic justice. These efforts form the foundation 
of SBS’ three key pillars: careers, businesses, and neighborhoods. 
SBS offers a wide array of services designed to assist businesses, jobseekers, and 
communities across all five boroughs. SBS assists New Yorkers in overcoming 
barriers to success in business and employment, partnering with Community 
Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) to support underserved entrepreneurs 
and connect them to capital access services. In Fiscal 2026, SBS launched the 
NYC Future Fund in partnership with CDFIs to offer accessible financing options 
to an expanded pool of businesses. SBS also established the Office of Street 
Vendor Services to connect street vendors to business resources, strengthen 
pipelines into the formal economy, and ultimately promote a more equitable 
economic landscape. For jobseekers, SBS offers direct hiring assistance through 
Jobs NYC, an initiative to serve those in the zip codes with the highest rates of 
unemployment. Since Calendar Year 2024, more than 18,000 jobseekers have 
been served through a total of 81 Jobs NYC community hiring events.
SBS also plays a central role in the City’s efforts to certify and strengthen over 
11,000 M/WBEs and extends direct support to the diverse range of commercial 
corridors in New York City, including those located in low and moderate income 
(LMI) areas. This support takes the form of financial assistance and technical 
guidance provided to Community-Based Development Organizations (CBDOs) 
and BIDs. SBS has a continued track record of overseeing BID creation in LMI 
neighborhoods, including Coney Island and Cypress Hills in Brooklyn and 
East Harlem in Manhattan. SBS continues to support LMI neighborhoods and 
promote a just economy across all corridors of New York City.
<<<PAGE 332>>>
Page 320  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Help businesses start, operate and expand in New York City.
Goal 1a Ensure that businesses and entrepreneurs have easy access to a variety of high-quality support services.
Goal 1b Administer incentive programs that support facility renovation.
SERVICE 2 Meet businesses’ talent demands by connecting New Yorkers to good jobs.
Goal 2a Match or train New Yorkers to meet the qualifications local employers require.
SERVICE 3 Provide financial support and technical assistance for New York City’s commercial districts 
throughout the five boroughs.
Goal 3a Strengthen and expand New York City’s Business Improvement District (BID) program and other local 
economic development organizations.
SERVICE 4 Help Minority and Women-owned Business Enterprises (M/WBE) identify and compete for City 
contracts.
Goal 4a Increase the number of M/WBEs that obtain City contracts.
<<<PAGE 333>>>
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS SERVICES  |  Page 321
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Help businesses start, operate and expand in New York City.
Goal 1a Ensure that businesses and entrepreneurs have easy access to a variety of high-quality support services.
SBS issued 747 total financial awards to 681 businesses in Fiscal 2026, increasing the number of financial awards by 33 
percent (up from 563 in Fiscal 2025) and number of businesses awarded by 40 percent (up from 488 in Fiscal 2025). This 
is attributed to the launch of the NYC Future Fund, a revenue-based financial product designed with flexible repayment 
terms based on business revenue. The impact of the NYC Future Fund, as well as the continued operations of other capital 
access services, are reflected in the increase in value of financial awards to businesses, up 47 percent from $47 million 
in Fiscal 2025 to $69 million in Fiscal 2026. SBS saw a decline in the number of Customized Training Grants awarded to 
businesses, from 15 to 11 grants year over year. This is attributed to the phasing in of new eligibility requirements. 
In Fiscal 2026, SBS increased the number of government navigation services provided, from 11,864 to 12,016. Government 
navigation services include curated regulatory, licensing, permitting, and inspection preparedness assistance. The number 
of businesses receiving government navigation assistance remained steady, with 9,226 businesses assisted in Fiscal 2026, 
compared with 9,348 in Fiscal 2025. Similarly, SBS supported 242 business openings in Fiscal 2026, compared with 232 
in Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Customers and businesses served 26,688 24,312 24,663 28,121 28,487 * * Up Up
 Businesses receiving financial awards (facilitated or disbursed) 10,627 1,232 610 488 681 400 400 Down Up
 Financial awards to businesses (facilitated or disbursed) 10,942 1,312 669 563 747 450 450 Down Up
Dollar value of financial awards to businesses (facilitated or dis -
bursed) ($000) $261,123 $109,277 $61,552 $46,890 $68,738 * * Down Up
Customers served by programs that help navigate government 4,301 7,991 8,035 9,348 9,226 * * Up *
Services provided to help businesses navigate government 5,876 9,813 10,339 11,864 12,016 * * Up *
 Businesses opened with assistance from SBS 164 184 218 232 242 ñ ñ Up Up
Businesses awarded funding for employer-based training 15 12 12 15 11 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Administer incentive programs that support facility renovation.
The Energy Cost Savings Program (ECSP) helps retain and attract eligible businesses by reducing energy costs associated 
with relocation or capital improvements. Lower energy costs of up to 45 percent is a significant incentive to promote 
business retention for firms and facilities seeking to move, modernize, and/or expand in New York City across all 
boroughs. 
In Fiscal 2026, 31 businesses were approved to receive ECSP , up 24 percent from 25 in the previous fiscal year. As a result 
of the program, 3,174 jobs were retained, up 92 percent from 1,657 in Fiscal 2025. The total value of ECSP savings 
for businesses decreased by 21 percent from $873,000 to $689,000, following several particularly large renovations 
in Fiscal 2025. ECSP figures will continue to fluctuate year to year as businesses navigate shifting financing costs that 
alter project sizes.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Estimated dollar value of energy savings for businesses approved for 
Energy Cost Savings Program benefits ($000) $518 $308 $481 $873 $689 * * Up *
Jobs retained by Energy Cost Savings Program for approved busi -
nesses 1,138 1,275 1,311 1,657 3,174 * * Up *
Businesses approved for Energy Cost Savings Program benefits 48 36 26 25 31 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 334>>>
Page 322  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 2 Meet businesses’ talent demands by connecting New Yorkers to good jobs.
Goal 2a Match or train New Yorkers to meet the qualifications local employers require.
In Fiscal 2026, Workforce1 systemwide hires and promotions saw an increase for the second consecutive year, with 
jobseeker visits to Workforce1 Career Centers and unique customers served also recording increases. Jobseeker visits to 
Workforce1 Career Centers rose by 14 percent to 327,428 due to expanded outreach efforts and an increased general 
interest in workforce services. Customers served also increased from 100,682 in Fiscal 2025 to 105,115 in Fiscal 2026, 
reflecting a steady increase in total individuals served by the system.   
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
® Workforce1 systemwide hires and promotions 22,324 23,599 22,270 22,502 22,523 25,000 25,000 Neutral *
Jobseekers registered through the Workforce1 Career Center system 
for the first time 33,403 38,318 43,399 49,899 49,297 * * Up *
Workforce1 jobseeker visits 245,605 233,964 249,479 286,338 327,428 * * Up *
® Customers enrolled in training 6,948 7,218 7,089 8,149 8,302 * * Up Up
Customers served 81,338 87,085 90,241 100,682 105,115 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Provide financial support and technical assistance for New York City’s commercial districts 
throughout the five boroughs.
Goal 3a Strengthen and expand New York City’s Business Improvement District (BID) program and other local 
economic development organizations.
SBS oversees the largest network of BIDs in the country, providing BID formation assistance and support services for 
existing BIDs. SBS also administers grants and assistance to CBDOs that support merchant organizing, district marketing, 
beautification, and small business support.
The number of CBDOs receiving financial support increased by 16 percent in Fiscal 2026, up to 107 from 92 in Fiscal 2025. 
This increase reflects the inclusion of a Fiscal 2026 grant for organizations that support the nightlife industry, which also 
contributed to an increase in the value of financial awards to CBDOs. Following the creation of new BIDs and the expansion 
of existing BIDs, the total frontage feet receiving supplemental sanitation services increased from 1,631,687 in Fiscal 2025 
to 1,698,223 in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Frontage feet receiving supplemental 
sanitation services through BIDs 1,531,377 1,552,401 1,552,401 1,631,687 1,698,223 * * Up *
Value of all financial awards to commu -
nity-based development organizations $5,834,796 $13,181,864 $9,645,000 $9,618,000 $10,016,476 * * Up *
Community-based development organi -
zations receiving financial awards 62 96 102 92 107 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 335>>>
DEPARTMENT OF SMALL BUSINESS SERVICES  |  Page 323
SERVICE 4 Help Minority and Women-owned Business Enterprises (M/WBE) identify and compete for 
City contracts.
Goal 4a Increase the number of M/WBEs that obtain City contracts.
The total number of certified M/WBEs increased from 11,382 in Fiscal 2025 to 11,639 in Fiscal 2026, exceeding the fiscal 
year target of 10,800 by eight percent. During Fiscal 2026, SBS certified and recertified a total of 2,468 M/WBEs and 
reached a recertification rate of 61.4 percent. SBS continues working to support certified firms to compete for and perform 
on government contracts through outreach, education, and technical assistance. 
SBS also continued to administer and manage the Online Directory of NYC Certified Businesses and connect M/WBEs to 
capacity building services through contract financing, bonding assistance, mentoring, and a range of other resources. In 
Fiscal 2026, the number of M/WBES awarded contracts after receiving SBS services increased by eight percent from 1,383 
to 1,487.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 ® M/WBEs certified 10,768 10,799 11,115 11,382 11,639 10,800 10,800 Neutral Up
 ® M/WBEs awarded City contracts 1,605 1,903 1,809 1,844 1,959 1,223 1,223 Up Up
 M/WBEs awarded City contracts after receiving procurement and 
capacity building assistance 1,182 1,390 1,334 1,383 1,487 891 891 Up Up
Annual M/WBE recertification rate (%) 61.3% 60.6% 61.2% 60.2% 61.4% * * Neutral Up
® Newly certified and recertified businesses in M/WBE Program 2,319 2,819 2,701 2,523 2,468 * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Customer Experience
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
CORE facility rating 99 99 99 98 100 * * Neutral Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 97% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
Completed requests for interpretation 8,405 8,442 15,807 29,999 14,710 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $513.2 $364.1 $284.4 $277.0 $331.3 $366.7 $275.2 Neutral
Revenues ($000,000) $0.4 $0.2 $0.8 $0.2 $0.3 $0.2 $0.2 Up
Personnel 253 288 320 313 318 433 419 Up
Overtime paid ($000) $96 $85 $82 $59 $92 $65 $65 Neutral
Human services contract budget ($000,000) $35.5 $32.7 $39.2 $35.9 $59.5 $58.9 $33.4 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 336>>>
Page 324  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $31.4 $36.5 
        001 - Department of Business $18.9 $20.1 All
        004 - Contract Compliance and Bus. Opportunity $3.9 $4.4 1a, 1b, 2a, 4a
        010 - Workforce Investment Act $8.5 $12.0 1a, 4a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $245.6 $294.8 
        002 - Department of Business $41.5 $46.8 All
        005 - Contract Compliance and Bus. Opportunity $4.3 $5.1 1a, 1b, 2a, 4a
        006 - Economic Development Corporation $80.0 $92.8 Refer to table in EDC chapter
        011 - Workforce Investment Act $79.7 $101.0 1a, 4a
        012 - Trust for Gov.’s Island and NYC & Co. $40.2 $49.1 1b
Agency Total $277.0 $331.3 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Kenny Minaya was appointed Commissioner of Small Business Services in March 2026.
• The indicator ‘Walk-in traffic at Workforce1 Centers’ in Goal 2a has been renamed to ‘Workforce1 jobseeker visits’ to 
align with formatting for other indicators in the chapter and reflect current program terminology.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Businesses: 
https://nyc.gov/business
• Careers: 
https://www.nyc.gov/getwork
• Neighborhoods: 
https://www.nyc.gov/neighborhoods
• For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/sbs. 
<<<PAGE 337>>>
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS’ 
SERVICES Yesenia Mata, Commissioner 
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS’ SERVICES  |  Page 325
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Veterans’ 
Services (DVS) connects, mobilizes, 
and empowers New York City’s 
Veteran community to foster 
purpose-driven lives for U.S. 
Military Service Members—past 
and present—in addition to their 
caregivers, survivors, and families. 
DVS works with City, New York 
State, and federal agencies, as well 
as regional private and nonprofit 
partners, to improve the lives of all 
New York City Veterans and those 
close to them. The Department 
seeks to ensure that homeless 
Veterans have permanent housing 
and access to the support services 
needed to find and maintain their 
homes; expands education and 
career opportunities for Veterans; 
and provides the human and 
technological infrastructure for 
Veterans and their families to 
gain citywide access to benefits, 
resources, and care through the 
nation’s leading coordinated 
service network. 
FOCUS ON EQUITY
DVS strives to connect with New York City Veterans regardless of discharge status 
or branch of service in the U.S. Armed Forces, including the Reserves and National 
Guard. DVS serves as a critical hub for Veterans’ advancement by informing the 
Veteran community of available resources, connecting Veterans and their families 
to services, and addressing gaps that the City is uniquely positioned to fill across 
the private, nonprofit, federal, and State sectors.
DVS recognizes and honors Veterans of all protected classes and is committed 
to ensuring that its programs, services, and outreach reflect the diversity of 
New York City’s Veteran community. As part of the Agency’s equity initiatives, 
DVS works to strengthen relationships with Veteran service organizations and 
trusted community-based organizations, particularly those embedded in local 
communities across the five boroughs. Through these partnerships, DVS seeks to 
expand its reach, reduce barriers to accessing services, and better engage Veterans 
and families who may be underserved, underrepresented, or less connected to 
traditional Veteran-serving systems.
DVS also serves family members, caregivers, and survivors, recognizing their 
essential role in the health, well-being, and overall stability of Veterans and the 
broader military-affiliated community.
<<<PAGE 338>>>
Page 326  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Provide supportive services to Veterans and their families.
Goal 1a Mitigate and prevent homelessness for Veterans.
Goal 1b Provide Veterans with mental health support and ensure they are referred to appropriate mental health 
service providers as needed.
SERVICE 2 Assist Veterans and their families with accessing eligible resources.
Goal 2a Inform Veterans and their families about services, benefits, and resources available to them.
Goal 2b Connect Veterans to eligible resources and services.
<<<PAGE 339>>>
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS’ SERVICES  |  Page 327
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Provide supportive services to Veterans and their families.
Goal 1a Mitigate and prevent homelessness for Veterans.
In Fiscal 2026, the DVS Peer Coordinator Program facilitated permanent housing placements for 209 Veterans. This exceeds 
the target of 92, and is a 37 percent increase compared to the Fiscal 2025 total of 153. DVS attributes the increase to 
additional staffing and additional housing vouchers received. DVS continues to collaborate closely with Department of 
Social Services to ensure that Veterans receive permanent housing and support for long-term housing stability. 
DVS provided homelessness prevention and aftercare assistance to 1,599 Veterans in Fiscal 2026. This is a substantial 
increase from Fiscal 2025, which had a total of 509 Veterans assisted. This increase is due to greater awareness of available 
services following the launch of VetConnectNYC and increased need for homelessness prevention services. Of those served, 
336 requested housing assistance. This is an increase from Fiscal 2025, where 250 Veterans requested this assistance. 
Additionally, the Agency’s Housing Support and Services has staff members whose primary focus is aftercare assistance. 
This is to ensure that Veterans are not experiencing any issues in their current housing placement. Of the 1,599 requests 
from Veterans, aftercare assistance requests accounted for 1,263. This represents an increase from Fiscal 2025, when 259 
veterans received aftercare assistance.
In Fiscal 2026, DVS had 114 Collaborative Case Management (CCM) housing vouchers available and utilized 41, compared 
with 37 available and 27 utilized in Fiscal 2025. The increase in available vouchers reflects 77 additional vouchers acquired 
from the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) in August 2025. This led to the number of vouchers utilized increasing 
by 52 percent, while the utilization rate declined from 73 percent to 36 percent because of the number of available 
vouchers. Utilizing CCM vouchers requires significant staff coordination and case management to move Veterans from 
initial intake through housing placement. DVS is strengthening its internal tracking and monitoring of CCM vouchers and 
working to increase housing staff capacity to support more efficient utilization. Even with this, the Fiscal 2026 utilization 
rate remained slightly above the target of 35 percent. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 ® Homeless Veterans and their families who received housing 
through DVS Veteran Peer Coordinator program 52 123 126 153 209 92 92 Up Up
Veterans and their families who received homelessness prevention 
and aftercare assistance from DVS 517 217 227 509 1,599 190 190 Up Up
 Collaborative Case Management housing vouchers available 14 49 45 37 114 27 27 Up Up
 Collaborative Case Management housing vouchers utilized 14 4 35 27 41 10 10 Up Up
 Collaborative Case Management housing vouchers utilization 
rate (%) 100% 8% 78% 73% 36% 35% 35% Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 340>>>
Page 328  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1b Provide Veterans with mental health support and ensure they are referred to appropriate mental health 
service providers as needed.
DVS utilizes VetConnectNYC as its primary platform for connecting Veterans to mental health resources, as DVS is not a 
direct mental health care provider. Through the platform, Veterans can independently access a wide range of mental health 
services offered by trusted community partners. VetConnectNYC also incorporates the Columbia Suicide Severity Rating Scale. 
Veterans whose responses indicate an elevated level of risk are immediately connected to crisis support, including the 988 
Suicide & Crisis Lifeline and other appropriate intervention resources. 
The implementation of VetConnectNYC has significantly expanded access to mental health screening and referral services. 
In Fiscal 2026, mental health referral requests increased to 131 from 33 in Fiscal 2025, an increase of 297 percent. This 
substantial growth is largely attributable to the expanded capabilities and accessibility of the VetConnectNYC platform. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Mental health referral requests 202 312 129 33 131 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Assist Veterans and their families with accessing eligible resources.
Goal 2a Inform Veterans and their families about services, benefits, and resources available to them.
In Fiscal 2026, DVS continued its commitment to engaging the City’s diverse Veteran and military community through 
both in-person outreach and digital engagement. The Agency participated in 294 public engagement events across the 
five boroughs, compared with 304 in Fiscal 2025 and above the target of 200. In Fiscal 2026, 51,409 Veterans and their 
family members attended DVS public engagement events, compared with 67,204 in Fiscal 2025. The events expanded 
opportunities to connect Veterans, service members, military families, caregivers, and survivors with available programs, 
benefits, and support services. 
DVS also continued to leverage multiple digital platforms to increase awareness of and access to its services. The DVS 
website received 165,331 page views in Fiscal 2026, remaining consistent with the 165,808 page views recorded in Fiscal 
2025. While overall website traffic remained stable, visits to VetConnectNYC rose, reflecting growing awareness of the 
platform and the resources available through it. 
The Agency also experienced continued growth in its digital communications. Social media impressions increased by 
41 percent, reaching 614,959 in Fiscal 2026, above the target of 575,000. Additionally, DVS expanded its newsletter 
audience by 19 percent, growing to 11,603 subscribers, above the target of 10,500. These metrics demonstrate continued 
engagement with DVS communications and support the Agency’s efforts to provide timely information and connect 
Veterans with available services. 
While digital engagement continues to expand, DVS recognizes that no single outreach method reaches every member 
of the Veteran community. The Agency will continue refining its outreach strategies by combining digital communications 
with in-person engagement and partnerships with community organizations to ensure Veterans, service members, military 
families, caregivers, and survivors across New York City are aware of and able to access available resources. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Public engagement events attended by DVS to promote Veteran 
resources 149 243 277 304 294 200 250 Up Up
Veterans and their families who attended DVS public engagement 
events NA NA 58,109 67,204 51,409 * * NA *
 Online site visits 28,592 125,457 161,931 165,808 165,331 160,000 160,000 Up Up
 Social media impressions 245,539 362,469 474,075 434,907 614,959 575,000 575,000 Up Up
Average newsletter subscribers 11,062 10,616 10,022 9,720 11,603 10,500 10,500 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 341>>>
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS’ SERVICES  |  Page 329
Goal 2b Connect Veterans to eligible resources and services.
DVS continued to support Veterans through Mission: VetCheck, a partnership with New York Cares that provides supportive 
check-in calls and connects Veterans with resources such as mental health services, housing, and employment assistance. 
The Agency also continued its partnership with the HelloFresh Food Program, distributing fresh meal kits each week to 
Veterans and military families across New York City. 
In Fiscal 2026, DVS served 8,056 Veterans and family members through walk-in visits, phone calls, digital requests, outreach 
events, Mission: VetCheck, and the HelloFresh Food Program. While this represents a 10 percent decrease from 8,920 in 
Fiscal 2025, it remained above the target of 5,000. DVS recognizes that many Veterans engage with the Agency multiple 
times as their needs evolve over time. 
During Fiscal 2026, DVS managed 31,803 service requests from Veterans and family members through the VetConnectNYC 
platform compared to 31,291 in Fiscal 2025. These requests included housing assistance, benefits navigation, employment 
services, and referrals to partner organizations for income support, legal assistance, and discharge upgrade reviews. To 
expand access to benefits, DVS increased the number of Veteran Service Officers from six to seven, strengthening the 
Agency’s capacity to assist Veterans and their families with claims, supplemental claims, and appeals. 
In Fiscal 2026, DVS expanded employment services by providing individualized career counseling to Veterans and military 
spouses. The Agency also strengthened pathways to entrepreneurship through the Veterans Business Leadership Alliance 
(VBLA), connecting aspiring Veteran business owners with resources and technical assistance provided in partnership with 
the New York City Department of Small Business Services and other public and private sector partners. 
These initiatives contributed to strong service outcomes, with 93.9 percent of referrals recorded in the Agency’s case 
management system reported as resolved by DVS staff. This is down from 96.2 percent in Fiscal 2025 but above the target 
of 90 percent.
In Fiscal 2026, DVS assisted 130 indigent deceased Veterans with burial benefits, up from 44 in Fiscal 2025. The increase 
was due to an additional full-time staff member assigned to burial services and referrals midway through Fiscal 2026, which 
increased DVS’s capacity to provide burial assistance and submit reimbursement requests to New York State. DVS also 
packed 99,750 food kits for distribution to Veterans and their families, down from 105,300 in Fiscal 2025. The decrease 
in food kits was largely due to Thanksgiving distributions in November 2025, when DVS provided turkeys in place of some 
food kits; those distributions were not counted toward the food kit total.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Veterans and their families served by DVS 1,068 3,338 10,701 8,920 8,056 5,000 5,000 Up Up
 ® Requests from Veterans and their families 7,198 2,918 31,232 31,291 31,803 13,500 20,000 Up Up
Requests from Veterans and their families fulfilled (%) 96.3% 83.9% 91.7% 96.2% 93.9% 90.0% 90.0% Neutral Up
Indigent deceased Veterans assisted with burial benefits NA NA 14 44 130 * * NA *
Food kits packed for distribution to Veterans and their families NA NA 108,300 105,300 99,750 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 342>>>
Page 330  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $5.7 $5.5 $5.1 $6.1 $7.3 $7.7 $7.7 Up
Personnel 34 34 36 36 45 50 50 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000) $24 $24 $18 $19 $0 $0 $0 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        001 - Personal Services $3.8 $4.5 All
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $2.3 $2.7 All
Agency Total $6.1 $7.3 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Yesenia Mata was appointed as Commissioner of the Department of Veterans’ Services in January 2026.
• The previously published Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Veterans and their families who received homelessness prevention and 
aftercare assistance from DVS’ in Goal 1a was revised from 492 to 509 after a review of historical data.
• The indicator ‘Veterans and their families who attended DVS public outreach events’ was added to Goal 2a to provide 
additional information on DVS outreach activities.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Public engagement events attended by DVS to promote Veteran resources’ in Goal 2a was 
revised from 200 to 250 because previously published targets were exceeded.
• The indicators ‘Indigent deceased Veterans assisted with burial benefits’ and ‘Food kits packed for distribution to 
Veterans and their families’ were added to Goal 2b to provide additional information on services and resources provided 
to Veterans and their families.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Requests from Veterans and their families’ in Goal 2b was revised from 13,500 to 20,000 
because previously published targets were exceeded.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC:  
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/veterans.
<<<PAGE 343>>>
Infrastructure and 
Sustainability
<<<PAGE 344>>>
Infrastructure and 
Sustainability
Department of 
Environmental 
Protection
p 333
Department of 
Transportation p 343
Department of  
Buildings p 355
Department of Design 
and Construction p 365
<<<PAGE 345>>>
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL 
PROTECTION Lisa F. Garcia, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  |  Page 333
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Environmental 
Protection (DEP) protects public 
health and the environment by 
supplying clean drinking water, 
collecting and treating wastewater, 
mitigating storm and coastal 
flooding, and reducing air, noise, 
and hazardous materials pollution. 
The Department manages the City’s 
water supply, which provides more 
than one billion gallons of high 
quality drinking water daily to more 
than half the population of New York 
State. It builds and maintains the 
City’s water distribution network, 
fire hydrants, storm and sanitary 
sewage collection systems, and 
Bluebelt and green infrastructure 
systems. The Department also 
manages 14 wastewater resource 
recovery facilities in the City, 
as well as seven in the upstate 
watershed. DEP also implements 
federal Clean Water Act rules and 
regulations, handles hazardous 
materials emergencies and toxic 
site remediation, oversees asbestos 
monitoring and removal, enforces 
the City’s air and noise codes, 
bills and collects on approximately 
838,000 water and sewer accounts, 
and manages citywide water 
conservation programs.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
Most of DEP’s funds for operations and capital projects come from revenues 
collected through water and wastewater bills. While water and wastewater billing 
rates in New York City are significantly lower than the average for the largest 
cities in the United States, some property owners have difficulty paying. DEP has 
implemented a series of programs to help such customers. In Fiscal 2026, DEP 
committed to increasing these programs by $25 million over the next five years 
including expansion of the Home Water Assistance Program (HWAP) and the 
Multi-family Water Assistance Program (MWAP). Single-family homeowners may 
qualify for HWAP based on their income. In Fiscal 2026, nearly 61,000 customers 
received expanded HWAP credits totaling nearly $10 million. MWAP provides a 
bill credit to apartment building owners who demonstrate efficient water usage 
and keep rents affordable. In Fiscal 2026, multi-family buildings, with an expanded 
total of around 75,000 units, received approximately $19 million in MWAP credits. 
In October 2024, DEP began replacing privately-owned water service lines made 
of lead or galvanized steel at eligible Bronx properties at no cost to homeowners. 
The program targets homeowners in environmental justice communities with 
high concentrations of lead service lines and a median household income below 
$47,600. In addition to the public health and environmental impact of the 
program,  it helps DEP integrate, refine, and expand the lead service line inventory. 
To carry out this work, DEP received a total of $72 million in grants and zero-
interest loans over three years under the federal Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL), 
which designated $15 billion nationally for lead service line replacements, and 
anticipates another $48 million in future allocations. By July 2026, more than 1,966 
households had agreed to participate, and 813 lead service lines were replaced. 
DEP expanded the program in November 2025 by introducing three new grant-
funded contracts worth a total of $24 million and extending future eligibility to 
additional areas in Queens and Brooklyn. However, participation has been lower 
than anticipated, with only about 50 percent of owners choosing to receive a free 
lead service line replacement. This underscores the challenge of advancing lead 
service line replacements on private property without requiring property owners 
to take action. DEP has proposed legislative reforms requiring replacement at the 
time of property sale, during major renovations, or when a no-cost replacement is 
available. It also establishes no-cost replacements when City construction disturbs 
a lead service line and includes outreach and exploration of financing options to 
help low-income homeowners manage associated costs.
<<<PAGE 346>>>
Page 334  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Ensure the sufficiency, quality and security of the City’s drinking water supply.
Goal 1a Comply with all federal and State drinking water quality standards and monitor and respond to customer-
reported aesthetic issues.
Goal 1b Assure the integrity of the drinking water supply and distribution systems.
SERVICE 2 Maintain the City’s water delivery and sewer collection systems.
Goal 2a Resolve emergencies and perform preventive maintenance and required repairs to the water distribution and 
wastewater collection systems in a timely manner.
SERVICE 3 Treat wastewater and sewage to protect water quality in the receiving waters surrounding the City.
Goal 3a Maintain high levels of compliance with federal and State treatment standards for wastewater and sewage 
entering receiving waters.
SERVICE 4 Bill and collect revenue for water and sewer usage.
Goal 4a Ensure that customer billing is accurate, transparent and fair.
Goal 4b Meet revenue targets established by the NYC Water Board.
SERVICE 5 Enforce City laws relating to air pollution, noise pollution and hazardous materials.
Goal 5a Investigate complaints in a timely manner.
Goal 5b Inspect facilities that store, use or handle hazardous materials within the five boroughs.
SERVICE 6 Implement green infrastructure to improve water quality and resiliency with a focus on flood-
vulnerable and environmental justice areas.
Goal 6a Meet NYC and NYS combined sewer overflow targets for green infrastructure.
<<<PAGE 347>>>
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  |  Page 335
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Ensure the sufficiency, quality and security of the City’s drinking water supply.
Goal 1a Comply with all federal and State drinking water quality standards and monitor and respond to customer-
reported aesthetic issues.
By regularly collecting water samples at nearly 1,000 water quality sampling stations throughout the City and conducting 
analyses for a broad spectrum of microbiological, chemical and physical measures of quality, the Department ensures that 
all federal and State standards for drinking water, including those for coliform bacteria, are consistently met. In Fiscal 2026, 
DEP collected over 22,000 samples from the City’s distribution system, performed nearly 300,000 analyses and recorded 
more than 333,000 discrete automated measurements. Additionally, over 300,500 analyses were performed on over 12,000 
samples, and over 2.5 million robotic monitoring measurements were recorded from the upstate New York water supply 
watershed. In Fiscal 2026, NYC311 water quality complaints for taste and odor increased four percent from 296 in Fiscal 
2025 to 309 in Fiscal 2026 but are below the prior five-year average. The majority of the complaints are for unspecified 
taste and odor issues. The Department continues to diligently optimize treatment to ensure New York City’s water continues 
to meet all applicable standards.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Taste and odor complaints 703 264 250 296 309 * * Down Down
Samples testing positive for coliform bacteria (%) 0.35% 0.50% 0.98% 0.43% 0.36% * * Neutral Down
 In-City samples meeting water quality standards for coliform 
bacteria (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral Up
Water supply - Critical equipment out of service (%) 0.5% 0.4% 0.3% 0.5% 0.7% * * Up Down
Deficiency reports as percent of security checks (%) 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.3% * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Assure the integrity of the drinking water supply and distribution systems.
The vacancy rate for DEP Police exceeded 30 percent for most of Fiscal 2026. As a result, the bureau concentrated its efforts 
on core enforcement activities to protect watershed areas, as these responsibilities cannot be performed by non-police staff. 
Because facility security is a shared responsibility across multiple bureaus, DEP Police leadership collaborated with the bureaus 
and conducted internal education efforts to remind staff to secure facilities, follow established protocols, and contact DEP 
Police when necessary. While the staffing shortage contributed to a 19 percent decrease in routine security checks, from 
289,094 in Fiscal 2025 to 233,698 in Fiscal 2026, overall enforcement activity increased by over 66 percent, from 464 
to 772 during the same reporting period. With new recruits joining at the end of the fiscal year, DEP Police will continue 
routine security checks across all areas of responsibility and expects improvements in coverage as staffing levels stabilize.
Total violations issued decreased 20 percent, from 115,004 in Fiscal 2025 to 92,326 in Fiscal 2026.This decrease is due to 
staffing constraints. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Facility security checks 304,189 303,993 298,123 289,094 233,698 285,000 285,000 Down Up
Overall enforcement activity 620 827 441 464 772 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 348>>>
Page 336  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 2 Maintain the City’s water delivery and sewer collection systems.
Goal 2a Resolve emergencies and perform preventive maintenance and required repairs to the water distribution 
and wastewater collection systems in a timely manner.
Although the City had less rain in Fiscal 2026, the precipitation was more 
localized and intense compared to Fiscal 2025. The number of catch basin 
complaints received increased by 59 percent, from 6,835 in Fiscal 2025 to 
10,891 in Fiscal 2026, driven by more intense rainstorms. Due to increased 
operational focus, the resolution time improved from 2.7 days to 2.2 days 
during the same reporting period, and remained within the target of eight 
days. Similarly, the number of sewer backup complaints received increased 
21 percent, from 7,345 complaints in Fiscal 2025, to 8,901 complaints in 
Fiscal 2026. This increase in complaints contributed to a slower resolution 
time, from two hours and twenty-four minutes in Fiscal 2025 to three 
hours and twenty-four minutes in Fiscal 2026, yet still below the target 
of seven hours.
Catch basin inspections exceeded the Fiscal 2026 target, reaching 105 
percent of target compared with 94 percent in Fiscal 2025. The inspection 
program is designed to allow inspections beyond the target level. A catch 
basin cleaning is when DEP uses specialized equipment to remove debris 
that is trapped under the surface of the catch basin. DEP relies on the 
partnership of the public and other City agencies to clear surface debris 
like leaves and trash from the metal grate at the top of the catch basin. A catch basin cleaning complaint or inspection 
may not result in a sub-surface catch basin cleaning by DEP , though clearing of the top of the grate may still be needed. 
Total catch basins cleaned declined 17 percent, from 43,699 in Fiscal 2025 to 36,118 in Fiscal 2026. Prolonged periods of 
inclement winter weather contributed to the decrease as catch basins were inaccessible due to being covered in snow and 
ice and therefore not able to be cleaned.
In Fiscal 2026, the Department received 4,567 street cave-in complaints, a 28 percent increase compared to Fiscal 2025. 
Despite the higher volume of complaints, the Department resolved them in an average of 0.8 days, down from 0.9 days 
in Fiscal 2025 and maintained an average response time under one day.
In Fiscal 2026, the number of water main breaks and the corresponding water main breaks per 100 miles in the last 12 
months both increased 12 and 10 percent compared to Fiscal 2025, respectively. The 618 water main breaks and 8.7 water 
main breaks per 100 miles are among the highest figures recorded by the Department. Despite these increases, the time to 
restore water for customers remained under four hours. Most water main breaks happen during the winter months when 
freeze and thaw cycles drive the number of breaks, and variability on breaks from year to year is increasingly more apparent. 
While DEP expects fluctuations in the number of water main breaks year to year due to weather and other factors, the 
Department makes efforts to reduce the potential for water main breaks through pressure management, programmatic 
pressure regulator maintenance, using predictive modeling for guidance, and prioritizing replacement of mains with the 
highest history of breakage. 
In Fiscal 2026, lead service replacements completed increased 14 percent to 1,839, compared to the 1,612 completed in 
Fiscal 2025. In October 2024, DEP launched a program to replace privately-owned lead service lines at eligible properties, 
at no cost to the homeowner.
0
200
400
600
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Water Main Breaks 
618
359
552
459
403
<<<PAGE 349>>>
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  |  Page 337
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Sewer backup complaints received 16,652 11,705 11,421 7,345 8,901 * * Down *
– Confirmed (on City infrastructure) 4,795 2,164 2,851 1,401 1,843 * * Down Down
– Unconfirmed (not on City infrastructure or unfounded) 11,858 9,543 8,567 5,946 7,054 * * Down *
 Sewer backup resolution time (hours:minutes) 15:42 3:23 3:12 2:24 3:24 7:00 7:00 Down Down
Street segments with confirmed sewer backup in the last 12 
months (% of total segments) 2.2% 1.0% 1.3% 0.6% 0.8% * * Down Down
 Street segments with recurring confirmed sewer backups in 
the last 12 months (% of total segments) 0.5% 0.2% 0.3% 0.2% 0.2% 0.6% 0.6% Down Down
Catch basin complaints received 11,447 8,585 11,064 6,835 10,891 * * Down Down
Clogged catch basin resolution time (days) 3.7 2.9 2.2 2.7 2.2 8.0 8.0 Down Down
Catch basins inspected (% of target) NA 103.3% 105.3% 93.6% 104.7% 100.0% 100.0% NA Up
Catch basins cleaned 29,511 42,214 42,443 43,699 36,118 * * Up *
 Backlog of catch basin repairs (% of system) 2.4% 2.9% 2.9% 2.9% 2.5% 1.0% 1.0% Neutral Down
Street cave-in complaints received 3,905 3,617 3,745 3,573 4,567 * * Up Down
Average time to respond to street cave-in complaints and make 
safe (days) 0.8 0.8 1.0 0.9 0.8 * * Neutral Down
Water main breaks 459 403 359 552 618 * * Up Down
Water main breaks per 100 miles of main in the last 12 months 6.6 5.8 5.1 7.9 8.7 * * Up Down
 Average time to restore water to customers after confirming 
breaks (hours:minutes) 4:18 4:34 3:47 3:47 3:54 6:00 6:00 Down Down
Leak complaints received 3,491 3,528 3,139 3,766 3,802 * * Up *
– City infrastructure 546 626 607 756 761 * * Up Down
 Leak resolution time (days) (City infrastructure only) 6.7 9.7 8.8 7.9 9.8 12.0 12.0 Up Down
 Broken and inoperative hydrants (%) 0.26% 0.39% 0.31% 0.31% 0.49% 0.80% 0.80% Up Down
 Average time to repair or replace high-priority broken or 
inoperative hydrants (days) 2.1 2.2 1.7 1.6 1.7 5.0 5.0 Down Down
Lead service replacements completed 1,669 1,422 1,557 1,612 1,839 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Treat wastewater and sewage to protect water quality in the receiving waters surrounding 
the City.
Goal 3a Maintain high levels of compliance with federal and State treatment standards for wastewater and 
sewage entering receiving waters.
In Fiscal 2026, DEP maintained a high degree of compliance with wastewater plant discharge standards. Overall, DEP 
reached 99.7 percent compliance with all aspects of the State Pollutant Discharge Elimination Standards permit, for the 
second consecutive year. This degree of compliance spotlights the extraordinary efforts of staff throughout the year to 
remain in compliance, even during periods of unexpected equipment downtime.
The Department utilizes a robust maintenance program across all its facilities that includes predictive maintenance 
methods, such as vibration analysis and thermographic imaging, to better identify maintenance and replacement cycles 
and increase equipment reliability on wastewater resource recovery facilities. Due to these maintenance practices, in 
Fiscal 2026, the Department kept sufficient critical equipment in service to treat wastewater as required. The percent of 
critical equipment necessary for wet weather event operations that was out-of-service remained well below the target 
of 3.5 percent at 1.0 percent.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Water resource recovery facility (WRRF) effluent meeting State 
Pollutant Discharge Elimination Standards (%) 99.7% 99.9% 99.9% 99.7% 99.7% 100.0% 100.0% Neutral Up
WRRFs - Critical equipment out-of-service (% below minimum) 1.8% 0.9% 0.7% 0.9% 1.0% 3.5% 3.5% Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 350>>>
Page 338  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 4 Bill and collect revenue for water and sewer usage.
Goal 4a Ensure that customer billing is accurate, transparent and fair.
Despite continuing to exceed the Department’s revenue plan in Fiscal 2026, the balance of accounts receivable more than 
180 days has grown to over $1.2 billion. This growth is concentrated among fewer accounts, however, as the average 
number of accounts delinquent more than 180 days declined from 92,853 in Fiscal 2025 to 91,376 in Fiscal 2026 — 
indicating rising balances among existing delinquent customers rather than a growing base of non-paying customers. DEP 
is expanding efforts to bring long-term non-paying customers back into good standing via enhanced, data-driven outreach 
and the expansion of DEP’s Key Accounts Group, a specialized unit within the Bureau of Customer Services that manages 
relationships, billing, and service issues for high-use, complex, or major municipal water and wastewater customers.
The Department continues to take action to improve meter reading rates and reduce reliance on estimated bills. The 
proportion of estimated bills increased from 17.5 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 28.3 percent in Fiscal 2026. DEP expects this 
to be the high point of estimated billing as the Department continues its initiative to replace hundreds of thousands of 
Automated Meter Reading (AMR) devices across the City to reduce reliance on estimated billing and maintain consistent 
water use readings. As of July 2026, DEP has replaced over 300,000 AMR devices and is replacing approximately 30,000 
additional devices per month. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Average daily in-City water consumption (millions of gallons) 981 1,004 997 998 1,006 * * Neutral Down
Balance of accounts receivable delinquent more than 180 days 
($000,000) $823 $852 $1,036 $1,087 $1,239 * * Up Down
Accounts receivable delinquent more than 180 days 110,459 92,776 90,093 92,853 91,376 * * Down Down
 Estimated bills (%) 3.5% 4.8% 7.9% 17.5% 28.3% 4.0% 4.0% Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 4b Meet revenue targets established by the NYC Water Board.
In Fiscal 2026, the Department collected over $4.8 billion, surpassing the revenue target by nearly five percentage points. 
The percentage of billed amounts collected within 30 days has increased for a fifth consecutive year, reaching 71.2 percent 
in Fiscal 2026. Continued strong collections were driven by DEP’s service shut-off program and by progress resolving balances 
with its most long-term delinquent customers.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total revenue collected ($000,000) $3,772.0 $4,095.0 $4,188.0 $4,746.0 $4,806.0 $4,615.0 $4,945.0 Up Up
 Total revenue as percent of target (%) 107.0% 106.7% 100.8% 109.6% 104.5% 100.0% 100.0% Neutral Up
Billed amount collected in 30 days (%) 61.2% 67.7% 69.6% 70.2% 71.2% * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 5 Enforce City laws relating to air pollution, noise pollution and hazardous materials.
Goal 5a Investigate complaints in a timely manner.
DEP received 31 percent more asbestos complaints, from 995 in Fiscal 2025 compared to 1,305 in Fiscal 2026. The 
average days to close asbestos complaints increased from 0.57 to 0.67 days during the same reporting period. In some 
cases, inspectors were unable to enter because no one was home; in others, complainants requested that inspections 
occur specifically when work was underway, which may not align with the time the complaint was filed. For example, a 
complaint may be submitted after normal working hours, but the related activity may occur the following day or later in 
the evening. Inspectors generally contact complainants to determine the most appropriate time for a site visit, which can 
affect the overall close-out time. All complaints were closed within set targets. 
<<<PAGE 351>>>
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  |  Page 339
In Fiscal 2025 compared to Fiscal 2026, hazardous materials complaints received increased eight percent, from 3,293 to 
3,560. The proportion of hazardous materials complaints responded to within three hours increased from 93 percent to 98 
percent during the same reporting period. DEP has implemented a triage 
system with other City agencies to prioritize urgent calls. This refined 
intake process allowed staff to more efficiently identify complaints within 
the Department’s purview and prioritize them appropriately, resulting in 
sustained progress toward responding to hazardous materials complaints 
within three hours. Continued refinement of triage methods is expected 
to support ongoing improvements in overall response timeliness. The 
average time to respond to hazardous materials complaints and complete 
mitigation remained within established targets, with most responses 
occurring within one day and more complex cleanups completed within 
three days. Enhanced triage has helped ensure that higher -priority 
complaints are addressed first, enabling more effective deployment 
of staff and resources. Additionally, the registration of new mitigation 
contracts for hazardous lithium-ion battery incidents, an area of increasing 
demand, strengthened the Division of Emergency Response and Technical 
Assessment’s ability to respond to and resolve incidents efficiently. The 
Department will continue adjusting response and triage procedures to optimize operational effectiveness.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Air quality complaints received 12,326 12,306 10,761 9,723 9,687 * * Down *
 Average days to close air quality complaints 2.8 2.4 2.9 3.3 3.2 7.0 7.0 Up Down
 Air quality complaints responded to within seven days (%) 99% 99% 99% 98% 98% 88% 88% Neutral Up
Noise complaints received 47,811 50,341 55,731 57,528 61,366 * * Up *
 Average days to close noise complaints 4.1 4.1 5.4 5.7 5.3 7.0 7.0 Up Down
Noise complaints not requiring access to premises responded to 
within seven days (%) 99% 98% 97% 98% 97% 88% 88% Neutral Up
Asbestos complaints received 1,070 1,048 1,057 995 1,305 * * Up *
 Average days to close asbestos complaints 0.62 0.53 0.43 0.57 0.67 1.00 1.00 Up Down
Asbestos complaints responded to within three hours (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral Up
Hazardous materials complaints received 2,640 2,961 3,033 3,293 3,560 * * Up *
 Average time to respond to hazardous material complaints and 
make safe (days) 0.8 0.3 1.0 2.5 2.1 1.5 1.5 Up Down
Hazardous materials complaints responded to within three hours 
(%) 98% 96% 95% 93% 98% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 5b Inspect facilities that store, use or handle hazardous materials within the five boroughs.
As required by local law, the Department’s Right-to-Know program regulates the storage, use, and handling of hazardous 
materials that pose a threat to the City’s public health and the environment. The Department increased the number of facility 
inspections completed under the program by 18 percent, from 5,458 in Fiscal 2025 to 6,442 in Fiscal 2026. This increase 
is due to DEP assigning additional in-office technical review duties to emergency response staff during periods when no 
service requests were pending. Emergency response activities remained the priority; however, allocating this downtime 
to technical reviews allowed field inspectors, who previously performed both tasks, to dedicate more time to inspections. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Right-to-Know inspections completed 8,135 4,111 5,659 5,458 6,442 * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
65000
Noise complaints received
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Average days to close
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Noise Complaints Received and 
Average Days to Close 
4.1
5.4 5.7
4.1
61,366
47,811 50,341
55,731 57,528
5.3
<<<PAGE 352>>>
Page 340  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 6 Implement green infrastructure to improve water quality and resiliency with a focus on 
flood-vulnerable and environmental justice areas.
Goal 6a Meet NYC and NYS combined sewer overflow targets for green infrastructure.
In Calendar 2025, the cumulative number of green infrastructure assets implemented in combined sewer areas increased 
by nearly eight percent from Calendar 2024, rising from 16,321 to 17,583. Similarly, the cumulative number of greened 
acres managed by green infrastructure increased over seven percent in Calendar 2025 to 3,063. This contributes to an 
annual Combined Sewer Overflows (CSO) volume reduction of 839 million gallons per year, which improved four percent 
in Calendar 2025. This progress shows the DEP’s commitment to the reduction of CSO to improve harbor water quality. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Green infrastructure assets implemented (CY) 11,553 12,781 13,723 16,321 17,583 * * Up Up
Green infrastructure greened acres managed (CY) 2,094 2,299 2,363 2,853 3,063 * * Up Up
 Green infrastructure combined sewer overflow reduction (CY) 
(MGY) NA NA 680 807 839 ñ ñ NA Up
Green infrastructure financial incentive projects completed on 
private property 0 1 5 7 8 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Payout ($000) NA $16,173 $15,464 $20,917 NA * * NA Down
Total violations issued 31,006 74,356 80,801 115,004 92,326 * * Up *
Violations admitted to or upheld at the Environmental Control 
Board (%) 88.9% 93.9% 92.3% 92.5% 92.7% * * Neutral Up
Workplace injuries reported 402 346 434 425 436 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 98% 100% 99% 100% 100% 95% 95% Neutral Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 66% 97% 100% 100% 100% 95% 95% Up Up
Calls answered within 30 seconds (%) 16% 28% 46% 28% 19% 76% 76% Up Up
Average customer in-person wait time (minutes:seconds) 2:15 2:15 1:52 3:56 3:12 5:00 5:00 Up Down
Completed customer requests for interpretation 8,327 18,312 17,841 17,655 17,863 * * Up *
Visitors rating customer service at borough centers as good or 
better (%) 95.0% 94.0% 93.0% 91.0% 88.0% 90.0% 90.0% Neutral Up
CORE facility rating 100 99 100 95 100 90 90 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 353>>>
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  |  Page 341
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Response to 311 Service Requests (SRs) FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Percent meeting time to first action - Sewer Maintenance - Catch 
Basin Clogged/Flooding (6 days) 88% 92% 94% 94% 95% 85% 85% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action - Sewer Maintenance - Sewer 
Backup (0.25 days) 75% 92% 91% 96% 90% 85% 85% Up *
Percent meeting time to first action - Water Maintenance - Hydrant 
Running (2 days) 82% 82% 83% 83% 80% 85% 85% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action - Water Maintenance - Hydrant 
Running Full (1 day) 78% 79% 76% 79% 78% 85% 85% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action - Water Maintenance - Leak (0.7 
days) 85% 89% 88% 84% 84% 85% 85% Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $1,449.9 $1,535.9 $1,622.7 $1,678.1 $1,911.9 $1,890.3 $1,832.5 Up
Revenues ($000,000) 4 $23.8 $22.3 $22.2 $21.0 $21.1 $20.6 $20.6 Neutral
Personnel 5,592 5,761 5,759 5,813 5,811 6,547 6,609 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $55.0 $63.4 $65.4 $62.1 $48.2 $48.2 $47.1 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $1,609.6 $2,402.5 $2,501.2 $3,221.9 $2,859.1 $4,840.0 $5,077.2 Neutral
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None         4DEP revenues shown here do not include any of the approximately $1.5 billion the City receives annually from the NYC Water Board in reimbursement for opera -
tions & maintenance and in rent.         
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $659.2 $721.9 
        001 - Executive and Support $55.6 $67.9 All
        002 - Environmental Management $32.0 $32.4 5a
        003 - Water Supply and Wastewater Collection $257.5 $277.8 1a, 1b, 2a, 3a, 5a
        007 - Central Utility $89.8 $93.7 1a, 4a, 4b
        008 - Wastewater Treatment $224.3 $250.1 2a, 3a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $1,018.9 $1,190.0 
       004 - Utility $905.2 $1,067.4 1a, 1b, 2a, 3a, 5a
       005 - Environmental Management $37.1 $38.3 1a, 1b, 2a, 3a, 5a
       006 - Executive and Support $76.5 $84.3 All
Agency Total $1,678.1 $1,911.9 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.
<<<PAGE 354>>>
Page 342  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Lisa F. Garcia was appointed as Commissioner of the NYC Department of Environmental Protection in January 2026.
• Previously published Fiscal 2025 actual figure for the indicator ‘Taste and odor complaints’ in Goal 1a was revised from 
264 to 296. 
• The indicator ‘Lead service replacements completed’ was added in Goal 2a. In October 2024, DEP launched a program 
to replace privately-owned lead service lines at eligible properties, at no cost to the homeowner. This indicator will track 
this effort.
• The indicator ‘Accounts receivable delinquent more than 180 days’ was added in Goal 4a. This indicator tracks the total 
number of accounts with charges due for water and sewer use that are delinquent for more than 180 days. It provides 
context alongside the existing balance indicator, showing that the growth in the delinquent balance is concentrated 
among a smaller number of accounts rather than a growing base of non-paying customers.
• The Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Total revenue collected ($000,000)’ in Goal 4b was added to reflect previous and anticipated 
performance. The added target of $4,945.0 million reflects continued anticipated revenue growth consistent with 
recent collection trends.
• Service 6 was renamed from ‘Implement green infrastructure to improve water quality and resiliency’ to ‘Implement 
green infrastructure to improve water quality and resiliency with a focus on flood-vulnerable and environmental justice 
areas’ to better align with DEP’s scope of work. 
• The indicator ‘Green infrastructure combined sewer overflow reduction (CY)’ in Goal 6a has been renamed ‘Green 
infrastructure combined sewer overflow reduction (CY) (MGY)’ to clarify the metric’s unit of measure. 
• The indicator ‘Green infrastructure financial incentive projects completed on private property’ was added in Goal 6a. 
DEP provides financial incentives covering up to 100 percent of costs for green infrastructure on private property. 
This indicator tracks the uptake of these programs and measures both outreach effectiveness and the expansion of 
stormwater management capacity beyond City-owned land.
• The value for ‘Payout’ in Agency-wide Management is not available because starting in Fiscal 2026, values will only be 
reported annually as final audited data in the Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR) rather than as an initial 
estimate in the Mayor’s Management Report (MMR). Historically, initial figures for this indicator were provided by the 
Law Department in the MMR, while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
in the following PMMR. OMB uses a different process and timeline to determine the finalized audited amount disbursed 
by the City, prompting this change to clarify reporting.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Home Water Assistance Program (HWAP): 
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/dep/pay-my-bills/home-water-assistance-program.page
• Multi-family Water Assistance Program (MWAP): 
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/dep/pay-my-bills/multi-family-water-assistance-program.page
• Rainfall Ready NYC: 
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/dep/whats-new/rainfall-ready-nyc.page
• Citizens Air Complaint Program: 
https://www.nyc.gov/site/dep/environment/idling-citizens-air-complaint-program.page
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/dep.
<<<PAGE 355>>>
DEPARTMENT OF  
TRANSPORTATION Michael Flynn, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION  |  Page 343
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Transportation 
is responsible for the condition and 
operation of 6,300 miles of streets, 
highways, and public plazas, 809 
bridges and four vehicular tunnels, 
and 11 Staten Island Ferry vessels. 
DOT operates more than 13,500 
signalized intersections, 315,000 
street lights, and 15,000 on-street 
parking meters, and maintains more 
than 350 million linear feet of street 
and highway markings. DOT also 
manages a network of more than 
2,600 automated enforcement 
cameras, including speed, red light, 
and bus lane cameras. 
Safety for all users of the City’s 
streets, bridges, and ferries is DOT’s 
top priority. To support mobility, DOT 
oversees the City’s bike share system 
and maintains the majority of the 
City’s more than 1,550 lane miles 
of bicycle network, including more 
than 220 protected bike lane miles 
installed since the start of Vision 
Zero. 
DOT’s infrastructure programs 
include bridge capital investment 
and life-cycle maintenance, roadway 
resurfacing and pothole repair, 
ferry vessel and terminal upgrades 
and maintenance, and street and 
sidewalk reconstruction. DOT also 
manages pedestrian ramp and 
sidewalk repair programs and the 
Joint Traffic Management Center 
in Queens. DOT’s alternative fuel 
program promotes cleaner vehicles 
using biodiesel, ethanol, and 
electricity in the public and private 
sectors. 
FOCUS ON EQUITY
New York City DOT’s mission is to provide for the safe, equitable, and sustainable 
movement of people and goods, and to create public spaces that strengthen 
communities. DOT’s vision is a transportation system that offers mobility for all, is 
environmentally sustainable and resilient to climate change, and is driven by human 
power and clean energy. 
Equity guides DOT’s work, from internal culture to street-level operations. In Fiscal 
2022, DOT introduced Priority Investment Areas through the NYC Streets Plan to 
focus resources where they can have the greatest impact. Priority Investment Areas 
use demographics, density, and prior investments to identify historically underserved 
neighborhoods and prioritize projects accordingly. These areas generally have 
higher population density, more residents of color, lower incomes, and fewer past 
infrastructure investments. Prioritizing investments in these communities helps 
address historic disparities in access to safe and reliable transportation infrastructure. 
DOT also prioritizes accessibility in its streets, programs, and services for all New 
Yorkers, including people with disabilities. Guided by Accessible Streets: NYC DOT’s 
Proposed Five-Year Accessibility Plan, the Agency works to improve physical access, 
workforce inclusion, and communication for individuals who are blind, have low 
vision, or have mobility, hearing, or cognitive disabilities. DOT integrates accessibility 
design standards into public spaces, upgrades pedestrian ramps, installs Accessible 
Pedestrian Signals, and makes pedestrian signal information more usable. DOT has 
installed more than 4,000 Accessible Pedestrian Signals citywide and incorporates 
community feedback through commissioner-led quarterly meetings and monthly 
discussions with the Mayor’s Office for People with Disabilities. 
DOT advances equity in the public realm through initiatives such as Summer Streets, 
which has been citywide since summer 2023, opening nearly 20 miles of car-free 
streets across all five boroughs over five Saturdays and reaching more than 500,000 
attendees. These events celebrate cultural diversity and make active streets accessible 
to more New Yorkers. The DOT Art program has produced more than 475 public 
art installations, beautifying corridors and plazas while providing paid opportunities 
for local artists, particularly in underserved communities. DOT also manages and 
maintains more than 20 permanent artworks. 
DOT promotes equitable economic opportunity by meeting its goal of awarding 
approximately 30 percent of contracts to Minority and Women-Owned Business 
Enterprises, reaching that target in Fiscal 2026, and supporting diverse firms through 
outreach and technical assistance. Internally, DOT supports inclusion through nine 
active Employee Resource Groups, which promote cultural connection, professional 
development, and workforce diversity, including groups centered on Black/African 
American, Women, Hispanic/Latin, and LGBTQ issues.  
Together, these initiatives demonstrate DOT’s commitment to embedding equity in 
all its operations, including people, places, programs, and procurement so that all 
New Yorkers benefit from safe, accessible, and vibrant streets. 
<<<PAGE 356>>>
Page 344  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Maintain the City’s transportation infrastructure.
Goal 1a Maintain a state of good repair for the City’s bridges and tunnels. 
Goal 1b Maintain a state of good repair for the City’s streets, sidewalks, and highways.
Goal 1c Repair the City’s street lights, traffic signs, and signals in a timely manner.
SERVICE 2 Foster a safe and secure transportation environment.
Goal 2a Improve safety for pedestrians, motorists, ferry, and bike riders.
SERVICE 3 Develop alternative and inclusive transportation solutions.
Goal 3a Increase mobility options and sustainable modes of transportation.
Goal 3b Build and maintain an accessible network throughout the City.
SERVICE 4 Create public spaces to facilitate livability.
Goal 4a Enhance quality of life through streetscape improvements.
<<<PAGE 357>>>
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION  |  Page 345
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Maintain the City’s transportation infrastructure.
Goal 1a Maintain a state of good repair for the City’s bridges and tunnels. 
In April 2016, New York State began inspecting and rating bridges using the American Association of State Highway and 
Transportation Officials protocol, which rates individual bridge elements rather than assigning one overall structure rating. 
During the transition period, some bridge rating indicators remained unreportable because no industry standard or best 
practice existed for translating element-level ratings into a single overall bridge rating. Calendar 2023 was the first year 
DOT fully used the new system to assign a single comparative bridge condition rating, leaving bridge rating indicators for 
Calendar 2019 through Calendar 2022 not available. As of Calendar 2025, 31.5 percent of City bridges were rated very 
good or good, 67.6 percent were rated fair, and nearly one percent were rated poor. The 31.5 percent rated good or very 
good represents structures in stronger condition, while the 67.6 percent rated fair generally reflects bridges that remain 
serviceable but may require continued monitoring, maintenance, rehabilitation, or future capital investment. DOT uses 
these condition ratings, along with more detailed engineering assessments, to prioritize work and address deficiencies 
before they become more significant.  DOT continues to focus on preventative maintenance and targeted rehabilitation to 
preserve the bridge network, extend asset life, and minimize the number of structures that deteriorate into poor condition. 
DOT views the bridge ratings as generally stable and reflective of the agency’s continued inspection, maintenance, and 
capital investment efforts.
Bridge inspection procedures from the New York State Department of Transportation require flags to be issued for unsafe 
or hazardous conditions. Flags are classified as Red, Yellow, or Safety, in order of urgency: Red and Yellow Flags report 
conditions that pose a clear and present danger, or conditions that, if left unattended for an extended period, would likely 
become a clear and present danger, while Safety Flags address other hazardous conditions requiring attention. In Fiscal 
2026, DOT addressed and eliminated 849 flags, 12 percent more than the previous year. This increase was primarily driven 
by a 39 percent increase in yellow flag eliminations, from 90 to 125.  
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Bridges rated good or very good (%) (CY) NA NA 35.3% 34.5% 31.5% ñ ñ NA Up
Bridges rated fair (%) (CY) NA NA 63.8% 64.5% 67.6% * * NA Down
Bridges rated poor (%) (CY) NA NA 0.9% 1.0% 0.9% * * NA Down
Bridge flags eliminated 630 594 463 760 849 * * Up *
– Safety 541 523 379 617 665 * * Up *
– Yellow 53 50 51 90 125 * * Up *
– Red 36 21 33 53 59 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Maintain a state of good repair for the City’s streets, sidewalks, and highways.
DOT adopted a new methodology in 2018 for inspecting and rating New York City streets, converting to the nationally 
recognized Pavement Condition Index (PCI). The PCI methodology rates pavement condition based on the extent and severity 
of six distress types and reflects the unique profile of City streets and recent changes to the street network. In Fiscal 2026, 
nearly 74 percent of streets received a Good pavement rating, above the 71 percent target. Nearly 26 percent of streets 
were rated Fair, and half of one percent were rated Poor. 
In Fiscal 2026, DOT repaired 229,365 total potholes on local streets (185,788) and arterials (43,577), a 27 percent increase 
from Fiscal 2025. Local street pothole repairs increased 24 percent, driven by temperature fluctuations and winter weather 
events that created additional freeze-thaw cycles. Arterial pothole repairs increased 43 percent due to higher volume of 
<<<PAGE 358>>>
Page 346  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
311 complaints, additional response needs associated with citywide 
special events, and heavy vehicular traffic. Overall, pothole work orders 
increased 21 percent (from 34,440 to 41,532). The average time to 
close a pothole service request submitted via 311 more than doubled 
to 4.0 days but remained under the target of 5.0 days. Notably, this 
excludes pothole repairs conducted during the four proactive pothole 
repair blitzes conducted in March and April 2026 which largely drove 
the overall uptick in total potholes repaired in Fiscal 2026. DOT’s 
in-house crews resurfaced 1,169 lane miles of roadway, relatively 
unchanged from Fiscal 2025. The Mayor’s Office of Management 
and Budget approved funding for DOT to resurface 1,150 lane miles 
annually through Fiscal 2031. 
DOT inspectors completed 490,910 initial inspections in Fiscal 2026, a 
three percent increase from 474,617 in Fiscal 2025, and 262,814 post-
audit inspections, a four percent decrease from 273,492 in Fiscal 2025. 
Combined, DOT completed 753,724 initial and post-audit inspections 
in Fiscal 2026, an increase of 5,615 inspections compared to Fiscal 
2025. Initial inspections verify that worksites are safe and ready for 
operations, while post-audit inspections confirm that construction 
activities were completed in accordance with approved plans and code 
requirements. DOT issued 33,120 violations in Fiscal 2026, consistent 
with an average of roughly 33,600 violations over the past three fiscal 
years. Continued full staffing with experienced inspectors has helped 
the program keep pace with enforcement demands.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Streets maintained with a pavement rating of good (%) 77.5% 76.9% 77.5% 72.7% 73.8% 71.0% 71.0% Neutral Up
Streets maintained with a pavement rating of fair (%) 21.9% 22.3% 22.0% 26.8% 25.8% * * Up Down
Streets maintained with a pavement rating of poor (%) 0.6% 0.7% 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% * * Down Down
 Average calendar days to close a pothole repair NA 2.63 2.47 1.99 4.00 5.00 5.00 NA Down
Pothole work orders 36,121 34,563 31,947 34,440 41,532 * * Up Down
Potholes repaired on arterial highway system 23,880 19,862 24,630 30,377 43,577 * * Up *
Potholes repaired on local streets only 160,952 156,991 130,268 150,193 185,788 * * Up *
Lane miles resurfaced citywide by in-house staff 1,193.0 1,200.6 1,176.9 1,167.8 1,169.4 * * Neutral Up
Average cost per lane mile resurfaced citywide ($) $180,423 $191,855 $198,498 $221,693 $244,291 * * Up Down
Average in-house cost of asphalt per ton ($) $55.22 $51.39 $61.56 $60.85 $61.02 * * Up Down
Average vendor cost of asphalt per ton ($) $68.24 $73.32 $71.90 $72.35 $72.81 * * Neutral Down
Construction permits issued 552,009 581,004 603,411 604,199 644,933 * * Up Up
Inspections of permitted street work 586,462 494,435 494,112 474,617 490,910 * * Down Up
– Permitted jobs passing inspection (%) 70% 85% 86% 88% 83% 80% 80% Up Up
Post-audit inspections for completed street work 330,469 287,481 296,384 273,492 262,814 * * Down Up
– Completed street work that passed inspection (%) 71% 88% 88% 88% 87% * * Up Up
Adopt-A-Highway adoption rate (%) 82.4% 81.9% 81.1% 81.3% 84.2% 75.0% 75.0% Neutral Up
Adopted highway miles that receive a service rating of good 
(%) 98.4% 94.7% 95.0% 97.6% 98.1% * * Neutral Up
 Parking meters that are operable (%) 99.7% 99.7% 99.0% 95.6% 95.9% 98.0% 98.0% Neutral Up
Total violations issued 32,898 27,441 33,968 33,679 33,120 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Potholes repaired on arterial highway system
Potholes repaired on local streets only
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Potholes Repaired Citywide
130,268 150,193 185,788160,952 156,991
24,630
30,377
43,577
23,880
19,862
<<<PAGE 359>>>
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION  |  Page 347
Goal 1c Repair the City’s street lights, traffic signs, and signals in a timely manner.
Average response time to high priority traffic signal defects rose 37 minutes from 2 hours and 4 minutes to 2 hours and 
41 minutes in Fiscal 2026, exceeding its target of two hours for the second year in a row. Increasingly heavy storms and 
intensity of flash flooding across the five boroughs, specifically in February and March 2026, resulted in longer travel times 
and additional traffic signal repairs. 
Repair time for priority regulatory signs increased a few hours to 1.7 business days, well below its target of three business 
days. In Fiscal 2026, the average time for DOT to repair street lights rose to its highest level in 15 years due to weather-related 
outages, equipment failures, and coordination delays with utilities during ongoing underground infrastructure work (up from 
5.3 days to 8.5 days). At the same time, the average time for ConEd to repair street lights improved by three and a half days 
and finished Fiscal 2026 at 18.5 days. 
DOT took first action to repair broken street lights within 10 days just 75.5 percent of the time in Fiscal 2026, down from 94 
percent in Fiscal 2025. This is the lowest rate on record, and first instance below 90 percent, with data going back to Fiscal 
2008. The decline in first-action performance is driven by a combination of increased demand and repair complexity. Street 
light 311 cases increased 16 percent, from 31,238 in Fiscal 2025 to 36,291 in Fiscal 2026. In addition, streetlight repairs vary 
by case. Some repairs are straightforward, such as replacing a luminaire or changing a fuse, while more complex cases may 
involve electrical issues at the base of a pole, foundation work, utility obstructions, or ConEd coordination to restore power. 
Similarly, DOT’s rate of taking first action to repair traffic signal controllers within 0.1 days dropped 68 percent to 65 percent. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average time to respond to high priority traffic signal 
defects requiring a two-hour response time and make safe 
(hours:minutes) 1:41 2:07 1:57 2:04 2:41 2:00 2:00 Up Down
 Average business days to repair priority regulatory signs after 
notification 1.4 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.7 3.0 3.0 Up Down
Average calendar days to repair street lights by DOT 3.5 3.4 4.4 5.3 8.5 * * Up Down
Average calendar days to repair street lights by ConEd 15.0 14.6 18.7 22.0 18.5 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Foster a safe and secure transportation environment.
Goal 2a Improve safety for pedestrians, motorists, ferry, and bike riders.
There were 218 traffic fatalities in Fiscal 2026, a two percent increase from 214 in Fiscal 2025. Fatalities among motor 
vehicle occupants decreased eight percent, from 37 to 34, and pedestrian fatalities decreased five percent, from 110 to 
105. Fatalities among riders of traditional bicyclists increased from four to six and fatalities among riders of motorized two-
wheel vehicles increased 16 percent from 63 to 73. These increases continue to underscore the vulnerability of these riders. 
This category includes electric transport devices such as e-scooters, e-bikes, and hoverboards. Injury crashes decreased five 
percent, from 36,884 in Fiscal 2025 to 35,185 in Fiscal 2026.
During Fiscal 2026, the Staten Island Ferry customer accident injury rate improved to 0.94 per million passengers, the 
lowest rate on record. DOT reported 14 passenger injuries, down from 24 in Fiscal 2025, with falls and slips remaining the 
primary injury event type. The rate includes all passenger injuries where professional medical treatment was requested and 
does not necessarily indicate that treatment was required. 
In Fiscal 2026, DOT advanced the Vision Zero Action Plan by continuing to install street improvement projects. As part of 
this work, DOT constructed 25 percent more speed humps and cushions (up from 228 to 286) and installed more than 6 
million more linear feet of pavement safety markings (up from 53.2 million linear feet to 59.5 million linear feet). However, 
DOT installed just 87 Leading Pedestrian Intervals (LPIs) in Fiscal 2026, down from 316 in Fiscal 2025. This decrease is 
attributed to an overall decrease in requests and fewer remaining high-crash locations and corridors suitable for installation. 
DOT has installed LPIs at over 7,000 intersections citywide, and many remaining signalized intersections are less suitable 
because they may have no pedestrian vehicle conflict, multiple signal phases, or short signal cycles. Building on this work 
and responding to persistent traffic fatalities, the City’s recently released Vision Zero Action Plan outlines additional actions 
to improve street safety and reduce serious injuries and deaths.
<<<PAGE 360>>>
Page 348  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 ® Total traffic fatalities 266 270 277 214 218 ò ò Down Down
— Pedestrians 115 121 119 111 105 * * Neutral Down
— Traditional bicyclists 10 10 4 4 6 * * Down Down
— Motorized two-wheel vehicles 73 86 100 63 73 * * Down Down
— Motor vehicle occupants 68 53 54 36 34 * * Down Down
 ® Injury crashes 38,770 38,248 39,844 36,884 35,185 ò ò Neutral Down
 Staten Island Ferry customer accident injury rate (per million 
passengers) 1.75 1.97 1.48 1.46 0.94 2.00 2.00 Down Down
 Speed humps and cushions installed 262 231 443 228 286 250 250 Neutral Up
 Pavement safety markings installed (000,000 linear feet) 48.6 64.2 65.9 53.2 65.0 ñ ñ Up Up
Street Ambassador deployments completed 141 132 147 157 166 * * Up Up
® Leading Pedestrian Intervals installed 801 320 313 316 87 * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Develop alternative and inclusive transportation solutions.
Goal 3a Increase mobility options and sustainable modes of transportation.
Staten Island Ferry ridership remained relatively flat at 16.7 million riders in Fiscal 
2026. The average cost per passenger per trip increased nine percent to $13.09, 
primarily due to flat ridership at the same time as higher operating costs, including 
fuel, maintenance, and personnel services. Severe weather and continued changes 
in commuter travel patterns also affected operations. The ferry provides free, 
around-the-clock service between the South Ferry Terminal in Manhattan and St. 
George Terminal in Staten Island, generally operating every 15 minutes during 
weekday rush hours and every 30 minutes during nights and weekends. On-
time service and weekday peak-hour on-time service both increased by roughly 
a percentage point, to 96.0 percent and 97.2 percent, respectively.
Private ferry ridership dropped by four percent to 14.7 million riders. The decrease 
in ridership can be attributed, in part, to continued hybrid work patterns and 
an increase in inclement weather days. Over the fiscal year, several heat waves, 
heavy rain events, and a cold and snowy winter season likely contributed to 
lower ridership. Ferry service helps reduce overcrowding on subways and buses, 
offer reliable transportation to underserved communities, and expand the use of 
waterways as an essential component of the City’s transportation network. 
During Fiscal 2026, Citi Bike annual memberships increased slightly to 238,651, 
marking a second consecutive year of growth after two years of decline. This total 
includes renewals and Lyft Pink All Access members. Total trips declined slightly 
to 45.5 million, with pedal-assist bike trips increasing four percent to more than 
32 million and classic bike trips decreasing 10 percent to more than 13 million. 
Citi Bike continued its Phase 3.5 expansion, installing 136 new stations in Brooklyn neighborhoods, including Bay Ridge, 
Kensington, Brownsville, and East New York; Bronx neighborhoods, including Norwood and Riverdale; and Forest Hills 
in Queens. As part of its infill plan, Citi Bike also added 451 docks at new and existing stations to increase capacity in 
high-demand areas. 
Citi Bike annual membership (000)
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Protected bike lanes
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Citi Bike annual membership
219,837
235,867 238,651
32.9 27.5
19.5
33.2
25.9
230,438 227,933
<<<PAGE 361>>>
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION  |  Page 349
DOT added 33.6 lane miles to the City’s bicycle network in Fiscal 2026, including 19.5 miles of protected bike lanes, 
representing a 36 and 30 percent decrease, respectively, from Fiscal 2025. Bike lane projects typically move through a 
planning and design phase in the fall and winter months, followed by a construction season that typically begins in the 
spring and peaks between July and December. In Fiscal 2026, an early start to winter brought the prior construction 
season to a close earlier than usual, and significant snow accumulation through March delayed the start of the following 
construction season. Other implementation barriers have remained consistent over the last two years, including project 
delays due to community and political concerns, contractor and material availability, signal implementation timelines, 
limited design staff capacity, and expanded project scope related to concrete, sidewalk, and accessibility requirements. 
DOT has continued installation work through the summer of 2026 and expected improved production going forward. 
Completed bicycle projects included extending the protected bike lane on 3rd Avenue from 24th Street to 125th 
Street in Manhattan; installing a protected bike lane on Court Street connecting Downtown Brooklyn to the Hamilton 
Avenue/3rd Avenue bike path; adding two-way protected bike lanes on Bailey Avenue in the Bronx, 19th Avenue/81st 
Street in Queens, and Review Avenue in Queens; and installing protected bike lanes on Mason Avenue in Staten Island. 
These projects improved bicycle connectivity to major destinations, including Van Cortlandt Park, the Queens Waterfront 
Greenway, the Kosciuszko Bridge, and Staten Island University Hospital. Lastly, bike parking space production increased 
19 percent to 4,046, compared to 3,414 in Fiscal 2025, reflecting DOT’s transition from the 10,000 bike racks initiative 
to the Streets Plan goal of installing 2,000 bike racks annually. 
DOT installed 12.0 miles of bus lanes in Fiscal 2026, more than doubling production from Fiscal 2025. This growth was 
primarily driven by work on Hillside Avenue in Queens, where DOT completed nearly eight miles of new and upgraded 
bus lanes. In addition, DOT and the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) added bus lane camera enforcement 
to 12.2 miles of bus lanes in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Staten Island Ferry trips that are on time (%) 95.4% 94.1% 93.4% 94.9% 96.0% 90.0% 90.0% Neutral Up
Staten Island Ferry weekday peak hour trips that are on time (%) 96.2% 95.4% 94.5% 96.3% 97.2% * * Neutral Up
Staten Island Ferry ridership (000) 12,119 14,715 16,215 16,705 16,679 * * Up Up
Staten Island Ferry average cost per passenger per trip ($) $15.99 $10.52 $11.72 $12.01 $13.09 * * Down Down
Private ferry service ridership (000) 10,061 11,684 13,190 15,410 14,737 * * Up Up
Private ferry service routes 22 21 21 21 23 * * Neutral Up
Citi Bike annual membership 230,438 227,933 219,837 235,867 238,651 * * Neutral Up
Citi Bike trips (000) 28,487 32,151 38,622 45,621 45,531 * * Up Up
— Classic bicycles 19,618 18,186 15,844 14,436 13,044 * * Down Up
— Pedal-assist bicycles 8,870 13,967 22,778 31,184 32,487 * * Up Up
Annual cost for Citi Bike membership $179.00 $185.00 $219.99 $219.99 $239.00 * * Up Up
 NYC adults who bike regularly (CY) 888,000 902,000 762,000 680,000 NA ñ ñ NA Up
Bicycle lane miles installed 62.3 47.7 63.7 52.3 33.6 50.0 50.0 Down Up
— Protected 33.2 25.9 32.9 27.9 19.5 * * Down Up
Bike parking spaces added 7,442 3,734 6,928 3,414 4,046 * * Down Up
Bus lane miles installed 12.9 7.8 15.7 5.5 12.0 * * Down Up
Average vehicular travel speed in the Manhattan Central Business 
District 8.4 7.8 6.9 6.9 6.5 * * Down Up
Electric vehicles charging stations installed 140 189 189 207 258 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 362>>>
Page 350  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 3b Build and maintain an accessible network throughout the City.
DOT installed Accessible Pedestrian Signals (APS) at 652 intersections, a 16 percent decrease compared to Fiscal 2025. 
APS are wired to signal poles and provide audible and vibrotactile indications when pedestrians push a button installed 
at the crosswalk. The decrease was directly related to a lapse in contract capacity and additional restrictions imposed by a 
Federal Court Order. The lapse in contract capacity refers to a gap or limitation in available contract resources needed to 
complete APS installations. The Court Order requires DOT to equip 10,000 intersections with APS by the end of Calendar 
2031. The annual installation requirements are 900 intersections in Calendar 2026, 1,000 to 1,200 intersections annually 
from Calendar 2027 through Calendar 2031, and earlier required targets beginning in Calendar 2022. In Fiscal 2026, DOT 
continued to exceed the installation pace required by the Court Order. 
The number of new pedestrian crossing points (corners) installed in Fiscal 2026 increased by 26 percent to 6,224. DOT 
also upgraded 16 percent more existing corners in Fiscal 2026 than Fiscal 2025, surpassing 70,000 corners. DOT continues 
to increase production in pedestrian ramp construction as mandated by law and to ensure that every corner of the City is 
accessible. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Intersections with accessible pedestrian signals installed (CY) 273 605 950 772 652 900 900 Up Up
Existing corners upgraded (cumulative) 32,889 39,729 49,351 60,876 70,892 * * Up Up
New corners installed (cumulative) 2,350 2,793 3,870 4,940 6,224 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 4 Create public spaces to facilitate livability.
Goal 4a Enhance quality of life through streetscape improvements.
The pedestrian volume index of 84.4 in Fiscal 2026 is the highest recorded since the COVID-19 pandemic. In Fiscal 2026, the 
pedestrian volume index rose to 84.4, up from 79.3 in Fiscal 2025. This index is a sampling of the number of pedestrians 
traveling on the sidewalk at 50 sample locations around the City. Sampling is conducted during one week of May and one 
week of September at consistent times of day and days of the week. The figure shown is a ratio using the May 2007 as a 
baseline with a starting value of 100. 
The NYC Plaza Program continues to thrive, helping to ensure all New Yorkers live within a ten-minute walk of high-quality 
open spaces. Plazas enhance local economic vitality, pedestrian mobility, access to public transit and safety for all street 
users. There are currently 93 plazas citywide that have either been completed or are in some phase of planning, design, or 
construction. Of these, 90 plazas are now open to the public. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Pedestrian volume index 76.5 82.4 77.7 79.3 84.4 * * Neutral *
Pedestrian space installed (square feet) 199,679 554,032 486,440 404,139 456,120 * * Up Up
WalkNYC Wayfinding elements installed 25 35 6 11 10 * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 363>>>
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION  |  Page 351
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cases commenced against the City in state and federal court 2,165 2,424 2,305 2,822 2,733 * * Up *
Payout ($000) $109,411 $79,759 $119,445 $141,280 NA * * NA Down
Workplace injuries reported 541 619 644 724 749 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Average time to process a permit application for customers (calen -
dar days) 1.63 1.87 2.24 2.37 2.44 * * Up Down
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 99% 97% 99% 99% 100% 95% 95% Neutral Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 97% 95% 99% 99% 100% 95% 95% Neutral Up
Calls answered within 30 seconds (%) 73% 43% 3% 1% 31% * * Down Up
Requests for language interpretations and translations received 270 414 373 471 349 * * Up *
CORE facility rating 100 99 100 95 99 95 95 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Percent meeting time to close - Street Condition - Pothole (30 days) 100% 100% 100% 100% 98% 98% 98% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action - Street Light Condition - Street 
Light Out (10 days) 98% 98% 95% 94% 75% 98% 98% Down *
Percent meeting time to first action - Traffic Signal Condition - 
Controller (0.1 days) 77% 66% 66% 68% 65% 80% 80% Down *
Percent meeting time to first action - Street Condition - Failed Street 
Repair (10 days) 90% 100% 100% 100% 100% 85% 85% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to close - Broken Parking Meter - No Receipt 
(21 days) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 90% 90% Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $1,235.4 $1,385.4 $1,471.1 $1,565.4 $1,583.8 $1,569.6 $1,636.7 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $388.6 $485.7 $472.4 $479.0 $471.4 $465.5 $457.4 Up
Personnel 5,481 5,707 5,891 5,903 5,905 6,260 6,338 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $63.9 $70.9 $92.4 $99.5 $64.8 $61.0 $52.4 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $918.8 $1,489.5 $1,128.3 $1,440.3 $2,096.6 $2,502.1 $2,491.2 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 364>>>
Page 352  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $688.9 $700.1 
        001 - Exec. Admin. and Planning Management $91.5 $96.3 All
        002 - Highway Operations $262.1 $256.3 1b, 2a, 3a, 4a
        003 - Transit Operations $98.2 $102.3 2a, 3a, 4a
        004 - Traffic Operations $149.8 $155.6 1b, 1c, 3a, 3b, 4a
        006 - Bureau of Bridges $87.3 $89.6 1a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $876.5 $883.7 
        007 - Bureau of Bridges $25.1 $32.8 1a
        011 - Executive and Administration $132.9 $128.0 All
        012 - Highway Operations $162.0 $162.1 1b, 2a, 3a, 4a
        013 - Transit Operations $56.3 $56.9 2a, 3a, 4a
        014 - Traffic Operations $500.0 $504.0 1b, 1c, 3a, 3b, 4a
Agency Total $1,565.4 $1,583.8 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.     
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Michael Flynn was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Transportation in January 2026.
• Previously published figures related to traffic fatalities was amended to reflect the most up to date data. This can 
occur when a victim of a traffic crash is hospitalized for an extended period and does not succumb to their injuries 
until months after the date of the crash. 
 − The Fiscal 2024 data for ‘Total traffic fatalities’ was changed from 276 to 277.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Total traffic fatalities’ was changed from 211 to 214.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Pedestrian fatalities’ was changed from 110 to 111.
 − The Fiscal 2024 data for ‘Motorized two-wheel vehicle fatalities’ was changed from 99 to 100.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Motorized two-wheel vehicle fatalities’ was changed from 60 to 63.
 − The Fiscal 2025 data for ‘Motor vehicle occupant fatalities’ was change from 37 to 36.
• The Fiscal 2026 data for ‘NYC adults who bike regularly (CY)’ in Goal 3a is unavailable from DOT and is marked as 
NA.
• The value for ‘Payout’ in Agencywide Management is not available because starting in Fiscal 2026, values will only 
be reported annually as final audited data in the Preliminary Mayor’s Management Report (PMMR) rather than as an 
initial estimate in the Mayor’s Management Report (MMR). Historically, initial figures for this indicator were provided 
by the Law Department in the MMR, while final audited data was provided by the Office of Management and Budget 
(OMB) in the following PMMR. OMB uses a different process and timeline to determine the finalized audited amount 
disbursed by the City, prompting this change to clarify reporting.
<<<PAGE 365>>>
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION  |  Page 353
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• NYC Citi Bike Share: 
https://nycdotbikeshare.info/
• Street Ambassador Program: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/equity-stories/street-ambassador-program
• Mobility Management Program: 
https://www1.nyc.gov/html/dot/html/about/mobility_management.shtml
• NYC Streets Plan (2021):  
https://www.nyc.gov/html/dot/downloads/pdf/nyc-streets-plan.pdf
• NYC Streets Plan Update (2026):  
https://www.nyc.gov/html/dot/downloads/pdf/nyc-streets-plan-update.pdf
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC:  
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/dot.
<<<PAGE 366>>>
Page 354  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 367>>>
DEPARTMENT OF  
BUILDINGS Ahmed Tigani, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS  |  Page 355
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Buildings (DOB) 
regulates the safe and lawful use of 
more than 1,000,000 buildings and 
nearly 42,000 active construction 
sites under its jurisdiction by 
enforcing laws, including the 
City’s Construction Codes, Zoning 
Resolution, Energy Conservation 
Code, as well as the New York 
State Multiple Dwelling Law. The 
Department enforces compliance 
with these laws and promotes public 
safety through its review of building 
plans, issuance of construction 
permits, and inspections.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
The Department of Buildings is committed to delivering its services in an equitable 
manner that supports compliant building development, while improving quality of 
life, promoting sustainability, and strengthening public safety for all New Yorkers in 
communities across the five boroughs. The Department is focused on maintaining 
strong service levels and improving the customer experience, especially for small 
property owners, small business owners, and tenants who conduct business or 
interact with the Department. 
The Department is committed to enhancing quality of life elements for those 
who live in, work in, and visit New York City, notably by reducing the presence of 
sidewalk sheds. The City’s plan to reform sidewalk shed regulations, announced 
in Calendar 2023, is intended to improve public safety and quality of life by 
compelling property owners to make necessary building repairs so that sidewalk 
sheds can be removed more quickly, and updating current pedestrian protection 
designs with more aesthetically pleasing or less intrusive alternatives where 
possible. Since the launch of the initiative, Department actions have helped to 
remove more than 2,250 sheds across the City which had previously been up for 
over three years—over 550 of which were up for more than five years. Overall, 
the City has seen an over 15 percent net decrease in sidewalk sheds since the plan 
was first announced. The Department is also finalizing rules to implement new 
enforcement tools and has unveiled new pedestrian protection designs, which will 
be made available for use in Fiscal 2027. 
Building on this progress to promote safety and quality of life for all New Yorkers, 
the Department has recently increased staffing levels for several enforcement units 
that focus on proactive enforcement, parking structure safety, gas safety, and 
sidewalk shed enforcement. The efforts of these inspectors and other personnel 
will help to compel property owners to make needed building repairs to resolve 
hazardous conditions that endanger the public, including those living in traditionally 
disinvested areas of the City where neglected buildings can be more common.
<<<PAGE 368>>>
Page 356  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Facilitate safe and compliant development.
Goal 1a Improve processing efficiency.
Goal 1b Promptly review construction plans.
Goal 1c Promptly schedule development inspections.
SERVICE 2 Ensure the safe and lawful use of buildings and properties by enforcing the Building Code and 
the Zoning Resolution.
Goal 2a Promptly address complaints.
Goal 2b Rigorously enforce building and zoning laws.
Goal 2c Prevent construction-related fatalities and injuries.
<<<PAGE 369>>>
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS  |  Page 357
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Facilitate safe and compliant development.
Goal 1a Improve processing efficiency.
The Department is in the process of replacing the Building Information System (BIS) with its public-facing application 
portal DOB NOW. When fully implemented, it will allow industry professionals, licensees, owners, and the general public 
to conduct business with DOB fully online. Since implementation began in 2016, DOB NOW has successfully moved the 
processing of a significant percentage of transactions to DOB NOW. DOB NOW volumes are reported separately from their 
BIS counterparts. Although reported by job type, the Department can also classify DOB NOW filings by work type (such as 
plumbing, sprinkler, antenna, and supported scaffold). Separating filings by work type in DOB NOW allows construction 
applications to be reviewed and approved more quickly, eventually creating a much better service experience for customers.
In Fiscal 2026, total DOB NOW job filings increased by about two percent from Fiscal 2025, from 259,086 to 265,012. 
Total BIS filings decreased by 18 percent from Fiscal 2025, down from 16,420 to 13,509. Filings are expected to continue 
to increase in DOB NOW as volume shifts to that system from BIS; filings in BIS now account for approximately five percent 
of total filing volume. Though applicants are required to use DOB NOW for most filings, as of Fiscal 2026, not all job filings 
have been phased out of BIS and jobs that are in BIS will remain there until completed. Those jobs may receive subsequent 
or post approval amendment filings as well, which are accounted for in the BIS indicators. Total work permits issued in BIS 
continue to trend down as job volume shifts to DOB NOW. Total work permits issued in DOB NOW decreased three percent 
in Fiscal 2026, totaling 155,696 initial and renewal permits.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Jobs filed – All applications (DOB NOW) 240,005 248,446 253,548 259,086 265,012 * * Up *
Jobs filed – All applications (BIS) 37,670 40,926 26,873 16,420 13,509 * * Down *
Work permits issued – Initial (DOB NOW) 104,512 106,458 108,668 114,771 108,911 * * Neutral *
Work permits issued – Renewals (DOB NOW) 34,571 41,422 41,499 45,017 46,785 * * Up *
Work permits issued – Initial (BIS) 13,391 12,775 6,149 705 433 * * Down *
Work permits issued – Renewals (BIS) 29,787 19,657 12,418 8,847 6,665 * * Down *
 Average customer in-person transaction time (minutes) 5 6 6 7 7 ò ò Up Down
Average customer in-person wait time (minutes) 9 6 6 7 6 * * Down Down
Certificates of occupancy issued (permanent and initial tempo -
rary) 13,958 15,412 15,007 15,932 15,922 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Promptly review construction plans.
The total number of completed first plan reviews for DOB NOW filings increased by two percent from 153,551 in Fiscal 
2025 to 156,389 in Fiscal 2026. The total number of completed first plan reviews for BIS filings increased by 13 percent 
from 2,344 to 2,637.
The average number of days to complete first plan review through DOB NOW for all applications increased from 3.7 days 
in Fiscal 2025 to 5.4 days in Fiscal 2026. For jobs filed through DOB NOW, the average time to complete first plan reviews 
for new buildings increased from 6.3 days to 9.4 days, for major renovations increased from 6.0 days to 8.4 days, and for 
minor renovations increased from 3.2 days to 4.4 days.
For initial jobs filed through BIS, the average time to complete first plan reviews for major renovations decreased from 
20.1 days to 17.5 days and for minor renovations increased from 9.6 days to 15.2 days. As initial applications continue 
to be processed mostly in DOB NOW, the volume processed through BIS has continued to reduce significantly. With that 
reduction, outliers in time to first review are very few, but more prominent in impact to the overall average. 
The average number of days from filing to approval through DOB NOW for all applications increased from 20.3 days in Fiscal 
2025 to 25.4 days in Fiscal 2026. The time taken for a filing to reach approval is largely driven by how long the applicant is 
holding the filing while making corrections necessary to achieve approval, and is not under Department control. This time 
<<<PAGE 370>>>
Page 358  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
with the applicant is typically three times as long as the time the filing is with the Department for review. Resubmission plan 
reviews completed in DOB NOW increased five percent, from 106,759 in Fiscal 2025 to 111,842 in Fiscal 2026, driven by 
new building and major renovation applications. Increased volume, and the associated review time, contributes to longer 
average time from filing to approval.
In Fiscal 2026, the Department audited 5,954 professionally certified applications before their approval, which is up 14 
percent from 5,234 in Fiscal 2025. Additionally, the Department audited nearly 25 percent of professionally certified 
applications post-approval, up from about 23 percent in Fiscal 2025. Although Zoning Audits and Special Audits continue, 
program audits will be on hold until the audit module is implemented in DOB NOW. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
First plan reviews completed – All applications (DOB NOW) 136,720 142,061 149,991 153,551 156,389 * * Up *
First plan reviews completed – Initial applications (BIS) 11,262 13,197 6,952 2,344 2,637 * * Down *
Average days to complete first plan review – All applications (DOB 
NOW) 2.9 2.7 3.3 3.7 5.4 * * Up Down
 Average days to complete first plan review – New Buildings – 
All applications (DOB NOW) 7.7 6.5 6.5 6.3 9.4 ò ò Up Down
 Average days to complete first plan review – Major Renova -
tions (Alteration CO) – All applications (DOB NOW) 5.7 5.0 5.5 6.0 8.4 ò ò Up Down
 Average days to complete first plan review – Minor Renova -
tions (Alteration) – All applications (DOB NOW) 2.5 2.2 2.8 3.2 4.4 ò ò Up Down
 Average days to complete first plan review – Major Renova -
tions (Alteration I) – Initial applications (BIS) 18.7 16.1 15.0 20.1 17.5 10.0 10.0 Neutral Down
Average days to complete first plan review – Minor Renovations – 
Initial applications (BIS) 2.1 3.5 4.1 9.6 15.2 4.0 4.0 Up Down
Average days from filing to approval – All applications (DOB 
NOW) 14.7 18.1 20.2 20.3 25.4 * * Up Down
 Resubmission plan reviews completed – All applications (DOB 
NOW) 75,128 88,252 102,342 106,759 111,842 ò ò Up Down
 Resubmission plan reviews completed – All applications (BIS) 12,789 10,387 10,086 7,128 6,009 ò ò Down Down
Jobs professionally certified 117,753 114,779 107,288 104,939 103,865 * * Down Up
Jobs professionally certified that were audited (pre-approval) 3,388 4,595 5,322 5,234 5,954 * * Up Up
Jobs professionally certified that were audited (post-approval) (%) 21.9% 23.8% 23.7% 23.3% 24.7% * * Neutral Up
Of eligible audited jobs (post-approval), the percent of audits that 
failed (%) 5.1% 3.6% 2.5% 2.3% 2.2% * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 371>>>
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS  |  Page 359
Goal 1c Promptly schedule development inspections.
Average wait times for construction, plumbing, and electrical inspections all decreased slightly in Fiscal 2026, from 5.4 to 5.2 
days, 5.0 to 4.8 days, and 12.8 to 12.6 days, respectively, though inspection response time across all categories remained 
impacted by budgetary constraints and reduced staff capacity through Fiscal 2026. In June 2026, DOB graduated 78 new 
employees from the Inspector Academy, an intensive 16-week training program in code enforcement, zoning regulations, 
building regulations, and DOB policies. These new inspectors will be assigned to the Department’s Enforcement and 
Development units, with expected improvements in response times in Fiscal 2027. Further, the Department has proposed 
the implementation of a fee for incomplete or no-show inspections. These scheduled inspections that developers request, 
yet are unprepared for, lead to misuse of Department resources. The Department anticipates the fee will encourage greater 
preparation ahead of scheduled inspections, helping to reduce wasted visits and improve overall response times. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average days between construction inspection request and 
inspection 1.2 1.5 4.4 5.4 5.2 ò ò Up Down
 Average days between electrical inspection request and 
inspection 2.8 3.3 4.6 12.8 12.6 ò ò Up Down
 Average days between plumbing inspection request and 
inspection 2.4 2.2 2.6 5.0 4.8 ò ò Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Ensure the safe and lawful use of buildings and properties by enforcing the Building Code 
and the Zoning Resolution.
Goal 2a Promptly address complaints.
The Department received 21,471 Priority A complaints in Fiscal 2026, an 8 percent increase, or 1,602 more, from 19,869 in 
Fiscal 2025. The average time to respond to Priority A complaints in Fiscal 2026 remained at 0.3 days, satisfying the target 
of 1.0 day or less. Consistent response time for these complaints is attributable to daily tracking of reports and notifications 
that aid in a more prompt triage to the proper unit within the Department.
Priority B complaints increased by 4,653 from Fiscal 2025 to Fiscal 2026, up to 78,294. The average time to respond to 
Priority B complaints increased from 17.4 days to 21.5 days, with the target of 40.0 days or less being satisfied. Consistent 
with Fiscal 2025, the increase in Priority B response time again concerned elevator complaints. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Priority A (emergency) complaints received 20,204 19,867 21,516 19,869 21,471 * * Neutral *
Priority B (nonemergency) complaints received 63,279 68,480 73,547 73,641 78,294 * * Up *
Priority A complaints responded to 19,699 19,398 20,757 19,416 20,937 * * Neutral *
Priority B complaints responded to 54,954 57,847 61,013 55,882 59,591 * * Neutral *
 Average time to respond to Priority A complaints (days) 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 1.0 1.0 Up Down
 Average time to respond to Priority B complaints (days) 10.0 10.3 12.5 17.4 21.5 40.0 40.0 Up Down
 Residential illegal conversion complaints where access was 
obtained (%) 41.4% 30.9% 29.7% 26.9% 27.8% 44.0% 44.0% Down Up
– Access obtained and violations were written (%) 18.3% 21.4% 24.5% 25.3% 22.9% * * Up *
Work without a permit complaints where access was obtained 
and violations were written (%) 33.4% 30.4% 28.8% 36.9% 36.3% * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 372>>>
Page 360  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2b Rigorously enforce building and zoning laws.
The Department completed 415,481 inspections in Fiscal 2026, a nine percent increase from 379,691 inspections in Fiscal 
2025, and issued 60,422 Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings (OATH)/Environmental Control Board (ECB) violations 
up from 52,891 issues in the prior year. Of the violations heard, more than 78 percent were upheld, which is down from 
more than 81 percent in the prior fiscal year. In Fiscal 2026, DOB violations issued increased from 39,901 in Fiscal 2025 to 
143,725. The largest component of this increase is due to roughly 40,000 more violations being issued in Fiscal 2026 for 
failure to submit gas piping periodic inspection certification pursuant to Local Law 152 of 2016.
In Fiscal 2026, the Department issued 7,882 stop work orders (comprised of both full and partial stop work orders), a 19 
percent increase from Fiscal 2025. The increase reflects the work of the Strategic Enforcement Division (created by Local 
Law 74 of 2024), which conducts proactive inspections with a particular focus on work without a permit and unlicensed 
activity. When a stop work order is necessary, the Department has prioritized reducing full stop work order issuance in favor 
of partial stop work orders so the Department does not halt all work on a site unless absolutely necessary.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 All inspections completed 353,648 373,838 416,290 379,691 415,481 ñ ñ Up Up
 All development inspections completed 188,291 193,791 212,575 190,410 177,801 * * Neutral *
 All enforcement inspections completed 165,357 180,147 203,715 189,281 233,988 * * Up *
Enforcement inspections resulting in violations (%) 10% 11% 13% 13% 13% * * Up *
DOB violations issued 45,171 138,431 172,567 39,901 143,725 * * Up *
Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings violations issued 66,662 46,330 44,240 52,891 60,422 * * Neutral *
 Violations admitted to or upheld at the Office of Administrative 
Trials and Hearings (%) 77.5% 79.8% 81.2% 81.5% 78.3% 80.0% 80.0% Neutral Up
 Stop work orders issued 9,400 7,644 5,932 6,639 7,882 * * Down *
 Stop work orders rescinded 12,895 9,831 7,080 7,074 8,069 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2c Prevent construction-related fatalities and injuries.
Construction-related incidents causing serious or fatal injuries decreased 45 percent, from 557 in Fiscal 2025 to 308 in 
Fiscal 2026. Construction-related injuries related to these incidents decreased 12 percent from 363 to 320. There were 
eight construction-related fatalities in Fiscal 2026. 
A critical component of the Department’s work is promoting building and construction work site safety, through the 
administration of the City’s Construction Codes—regulations that dictate how buildings and structures must be designed 
and constructed within New York City. The Department continues to implement multiple initiatives to support this mission, 
which have led to a decrease in construction-related injuries in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025. To further address 
this issue, in fall 2026, the Mayor’s Committee on Construction Safety will convene for the first time under the leadership 
of the Deputy Mayor for Housing & Planning, the Deputy Mayor for Economic Justice, and DOB. The Committee will 
convene relevant stakeholders and will seek to identify the root causes of persistent construction injuries and fatalities, 
and recommend changes to local laws, agency resources, enforcement practices, and contractor accountability standards 
to prevent injuries and fatalities.
<<<PAGE 373>>>
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS  |  Page 361
The Department continues to visit permitted sites to discuss safety and distribute safety materials, with a particular emphasis 
on fall protection. The Department remains committed to enforcing Local Law 196 of 2017, ensuring that workers on 
construction sites complete the mandated 40 hours of safety training. Additionally, the reduction of allowable construction 
sites overseen by an individual Construction Superintendent from five to three began at the start of Calendar 2024. This 
decision continues to have a positive impact on reducing construction-related injuries.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Construction-related incidents 653 787 741 468 430 * * Down Down
– Construction-related incidents with injury 477 623 575 557 308 * * Down Down
 Construction-related injuries 487 658 625 363 320 ò ò Down Down
    –  Construction-related fatalities 6 8 7 8 8 ò ò Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Workplace injuries reported 12 10 8 5 18 * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 57% 50% 61% 64% 65% 57% 57% Up Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 81% 87% 85% 88% 80% 57% 57% Neutral Up
Calls answered within 30 seconds (%) 70% 61% 81% 82% 68% * * Neutral Up
CORE facility rating 91 98 95 99 99 85 85 Neutral Up
Completed requests for interpretation 269 51 86 342 91 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Response to 311 Service Requests (SRs) FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Percent meeting time to first action – Elevator – Defective/Not 
Working (40 days) 84.9% 97.7% 77.1% 70.6% 75.2% * * Down *
Percent meeting time to first action – Work Contrary/Beyond Ap -
proved Plans/Permits (40 days) 99.8% 96.8% 97.6% 97.7% 97.9% * * Neutral *
Percent meeting time to first action – Failure to Maintain (40 days) 89.7% 84.8% 75.1% 39.6% 83.0% * * Down *
Percent meeting time to first action – Illegal Conversion of Residen -
tial Building/Space (40 days) 99.9% 96.0% 96.3% 97.5% 97.3% * * Neutral Down
Percent meeting time to first action – Work Without Permit (40 
days) 98.6% 99.2% 99.9% 99.8% 98.6% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 374>>>
Page 362  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $196.4 $192.1 $190.3 $179.5 $202.3 $233.1 $233.1 Neutral
Revenues ($000,000) $336.3 $319.5 $353.8 $391.9 $481.3 $387.7 $358.3 Up
Personnel 1,560 1,569 1,563 1,605 1,695 1,883 1,885 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $7.7 $9.3 $4.6 $3.7 $3.0 $3.0 $3.3 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $145.6 $162.9 
        001 - Agencywide Operations $73.2 $69.5 All
        003 - Enforcement and Development $65.2 $82.8 All
        005 - Sustainability $7.2 $10.6 *
Other Than Personal Services - Total $34.0 $39.4 
        002 - Agencywide Operations $27.9 $32.6 All
        004 - Enforcement and Development $5.4 $4.5 All
        006 - Sustainability $0.6 $2.3 *
Agency Total $179.5 $202.3 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.       * None
<<<PAGE 375>>>
DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS  |  Page 363
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Ahmed Tigani was appointed Commissioner in January 2026.
• Previously published figures for Priority A and Priority B complaint indicators in Goal 2a were updated to remove 
complaint instances that are internally generated for tracking or agency referrals. 
 − ‘Priority A (emergency) complaints received’ Fiscal 2022 figure was updated from 20,410 to 20,204; Fiscal 2023 
from 21,012 to 19,867; Fiscal 2024 from 21,691 to 21,516; and Fiscal 2025 from 20,028 to 19,869.
 − ‘Priority B (nonemergency) complaints received’ Fiscal 2022 figure was updated from 64,791 to 63,279; Fiscal 2023 
from 69,603 to 68,480; Fiscal 2024 from 75,554 to 73,547; and Fiscal 2025 from 75,932 to 73,641.
 − ‘Priority A complaints responded to’ Fiscal 2022 figure was updated from 19,849 to 19,699; Fiscal 2023 from 
19,489 to 19,398; Fiscal 2024 from 20,861 to 20,757; and Fiscal 2025 from 19,729 to 19,416.
 − ‘Priority B complaints responded to’ Fiscal 2022 figure was updated from 56,413 to 54,954; Fiscal 2023 from 
58,965 to 57,847; Fiscal 2024 from 62,962 to 61,013; and Fiscal 2025 from 58,160 to 55,882.
 − ‘Average time to respond to Priority B complaints (days)’ Fiscal 2022 figure was updated from 10.4 to 10.0; Fiscal 
2023 from 10.8 to 10.3; Fiscal 2024 from 12.9 to 12.5; and Fiscal 2025 from 17.6 to 17.4.
• Previously published Fiscal 2025 figure for ‘All enforcement inspections completed’ in Goal 2b was updated from 
190,410 to 189,281 after data review.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Building One City: 
http://www1.nyc.gov/assets/buildings/pdf/building_one_city.pdf
• Data and Reporting: 
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/buildings/dob/dob-metrics.page 
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/buildings.
<<<PAGE 376>>>
Page 364  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 377>>>
DEPARTMENT OF DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION  |  Page 365
DEPARTMENT OF DESIGN AND 
CONSTRUCTION Paul A. Ochoa, Commissioner
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Design and 
Construction (DDC) works with 
more than 20 City agencies and 
non-profit institutions receiving 
City funding to deliver high-quality 
public buildings and infrastructure 
for New Yorkers in every corner 
of the five boroughs. Projects are 
managed with safety, efficiency and 
cost effectiveness always in mind, 
while meeting stringent standards 
for environmental sustainability 
and resiliency. DDC supplies a full 
range of design and construction 
management services for public 
buildings projects, such as providing 
new and upgraded libraries, 
firehouses and police precincts, 
and infrastructure including porous 
pavement, water mains, sewers, 
roads, public plazas and coastal 
resiliency projects. DDC’s total 
active portfolio for Fiscal 2026, 
including the Borough-Based Jails 
Program (BBJ), consists of 582 active 
projects (not including projects in the 
planning or closeout phases) valued 
at $33.5 billion. 
FOCUS ON EQUITY
In keeping with DDC’s commitment to equity and efficiency for all its projects, 
DDC remains highly focused on streamlining design and construction processes 
internally. The Agency continues to successfully expand its alternative delivery 
program based on New York State legislation which allows for the use of CM-Build 
for library and cultural institution projects, as well as progressive design-build for 
resiliency projects. In Fiscal 2026, DDC continued construction of its first design-
build infrastructure project on Lexington Avenue in midtown Manhattan which 
will enhance pedestrian safety. Following the successful completion of the Shirley 
Chisholm Recreation Center in Brooklyn using alternative delivery methods, DDC’s 
commitment to building community space faster and more efficiently remains 
unchanged. The Mary Cali Dalton Recreation Center on Staten Island continued 
construction in Fiscal 2026 and is expected to be completed by the end of Calendar 
2026, two and a half years faster than if using traditional contracting methods. 
All DDC projects share the same foundational purpose of enhancing neighborhoods, 
promoting economic growth and improving critical infrastructure. In Fiscal 2026, 
those projects included the Corona Health Center in Queens, and infrastructure 
projects such as Phase II of the Gravesend Bay Combined Sewer Overflow and 
the 4th Avenue Street Reconstruction in Brooklyn, and the Del Valle Square 
Reconstruction in the Bronx. The Agency also celebrated the restoration of the 
historic Hunterfly Houses at Weeksville Heritage Center in Brooklyn with the 
Department of Cultural Affairs, and the completion of the Van Dyke Boxing Gym 
and Community Center in Brooklyn with the New York City Housing Authority. 
DDC remains a leading agency in contract awards and payments to Minority and 
Women-owned Business Enterprises (M/WBEs) and through the first three quarters 
of Fiscal 2026, the Agency’s M/WBE participation was 32.6 percent for contracts 
subject to Local Law 1 of 2013, with over $342 million in contract awards. 
DDC also works to increase entry-level job opportunities in the construction 
industry for women and minorities from underrepresented communities, and 
to address barriers into City work by M/WBEs. DDC’s Office of Diversity and 
Industry Relations implements policies and programs focused on creating access 
to City contracts to build prosperity of M/WBEs, and the Agency structures its 
procurements to take advantage of new tools authorized by New York State to 
create additional opportunities for M/WBEs. Additionally, DDC is the first City 
agency to set disaggregated M/WBE goals on procurements and continues to lead 
this effort across projects, including under alternative delivery. 
<<<PAGE 378>>>
Page 366  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Design and build quality public buildings and infrastructure.
Goal 1a Complete projects on time and within budget.
Goal 1b Meet quality assurance and site safety standards for all active projects.
Goal 1c Improve customer satisfaction ratings.
<<<PAGE 379>>>
DEPARTMENT OF DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION  |  Page 367
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Design and build quality public buildings and infrastructure.
Goal 1a Complete projects on time and within budget.
DDC completed the Front-End Planning (FEP) process for 72 projects 
in Fiscal 2026, down from 74 in Fiscal 2025. The number of projects 
entering FEP is dependent upon the number of capital projects sent 
to DDC by the sponsor agencies. In Fiscal 2026, the overall number 
of projects managed by DDC declined while the cost and complexity 
of a typical project went up, often due to the need to provide extra 
stormwater drainage to manage the effects of climate change. Increased 
project cost and project complexity make it more likely that a proposed 
project will be returned to the sponsor agency and will need further 
study to complete the FEP process. FEP ensures that each project has the 
necessary scope and funding to achieve success before it officially enters 
the DDC project pipeline. 
In Fiscal 2026, DDC completed 90 total design projects across the 
Infrastructure and Public Buildings portfolios, surpassing the Agency’s 
target of 74 and an increase of 14 percent from Fiscal 2025. This increase 
was driven by an expanded Public Buildings portfolio. Eighty-two percent of the completed design projects were early or 
on time. Notably, DDC’s Infrastructure Division surpassed its goal of 88 percent, reaching 90 percent on time completion. 
The Agency completed 68 construction projects in Fiscal 2026, short of the target of 73 projects. Eighty-eight percent of 
completed construction projects were early or on time, exceeding the Agency’s target goal of 82 percent. The Agency also 
installed 4,235 Americans with Disabilities Act-compliant pedestrian ramps as part of the City’s effort to upgrade ramps 
citywide with the proper slopes and identifiers. 
In the Infrastructure Division’s more traditional portfolio of street above and below ground projects, DDC reconstructed 
15.4 miles of roadway lanes meeting the target of 15.0 miles in Fiscal 2026, but about half the mileage reconstructed in 
Fiscal 2025.The Agency installed 8.8 miles of water mains (compared 13.4 miles in Fiscal 2025) and 7.3 miles of sewers 
(compared to 6.5 miles). DDC’s portfolio is dynamic, reflecting the changing priorities of the project sponsor agencies. 
Initiatives related to climate change continue to be a large part of the Infrastructure Division’s overall portfolio. DDC 
constructed 6,171 linear feet of coastal protection in Fiscal 2026, continuing significant progress on both the East Side 
Coastal Resiliency and Brooklyn Bridge-Montgomery Coastal Resiliency projects, as well as Red Hook Coastal Resiliency 
which broke ground in September 2025. The Agency is advancing green infrastructure installations around the City that 
will help alleviate local flooding from cloudbursts, including porous pavement, which are road sections made from concrete 
that allows rainwater to pass through, taking advantage of natural drainage in neighborhoods with a large amount of 
impervious surfaces. DDC installed 96,853 square feet of porous pavement in Fiscal 2026, while not achieving the target 
of 100,492 square feet, still a 44 percent increase over Fiscal 2025. DDC installed zero rain gardens or infiltration basins in 
Fiscal 2026, though 19 and 36 were targeted, respectively. This reflects the citywide shift toward more porous pavement 
use because it has proven to be more efficient at managing stormwater than either rain gardens or infiltration basins.
$0
$500
$1000
$1500
$2000
Dollar Value in Millions
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
$1,607
76%
89%
90%
88%
$1,412 $1,710
$1,240
$2,068 $1,848
Construction Projects Completed
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
% of Projects Completed Early and On Time 
80%
<<<PAGE 380>>>
Page 368  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Front-End Planning phase completed 109 106 110 74 72 * * Down *
Designs completed 81 101 89 79 90 74 64 Neutral *
Construction completed 64 75 61 78 68 73 70 Neutral *
Roadway lane miles reconstructed 41.5 33.6 20.3 29.8 15.4 15.0 46.4 Down *
Sewers (new and replaced) (miles) 13.3 11.7 7.3 6.5 7.3 5.0 3.3 Down *
Water mains (new and replaced) (miles) 22.0 18.7 17.3 13.4 8.8 9.0 10.5 Down *
Rain gardens installed NA NA 153 113 0 19 22 NA *
Infiltration basins installed NA NA 1,096 378 0 36 20 NA *
Porous pavements installed (square feet) NA NA 20,478 67,257 96,853 100,492 98,970 NA *
Pedestrian ramp corners installed NA NA 5,488 3,822 4,235 4,035 3,843 NA *
Coastal protection constructed (linear feet) NA NA 3,102 4,427 6,171 5,750 4,702 NA *
Completed designs early/on time (%) 85% 81% 91% 85% 82% 88% 88% Neutral Up
 – Infrastructure (%) 93% 91% 98% 88% 90% 88% 88% Neutral Up
 – Public buildings (%) 77% 71% 83% 82% 76% 88% 88% Neutral Up
 Active designs — Early/on time (%) 75% 71% 89% 86% 83% 88% 88% Up Up
Completed construction early/on time (%) 80% 76% 89% 90% 88% 82% 82% Up Up
 – Infrastructure (%) 90% 87% 92% 94% 93% 82% 82% Neutral Up
 – Public buildings (%) 70% 65% 86% 86% 84% 82% 82% Up Up
 Active construction — Early/on time (%) 79% 73% 91% 88% 83% 82% 82% Up Up
 Construction cost variance (%) NA NA NA 0.66% 0.39% 15.00% 15.00% NA Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Meet quality assurance and site safety standards for all active projects.
In Fiscal 2026, there were 27 construction-related accidents at DDC jobsites, a 50 percent increase from 18 in Fiscal 2025, 
with zero fatalities. The increase can be associated with the complexity and nature of the work being performed, as the 
Agency is managing more large-scale and complex construction projects with higher levels of concurrent construction 
activities, with varying and continuously changing site conditions as projects progress through different phases. Incidents 
may increase during higher-risk phases of a project, as multiple trades are working simultaneously in the same or nearby 
work areas. Accidents and injuries have moved in lockstep across all five fiscal years, indicating that reported accidents 
typically result in at least one injury. Per established protocol, contractors are required to report all safety-related accidents 
and incidents to DDC within one hour. A formal construction accident report must then be submitted to the Agency’s Office 
of Construction Safety within 24 hours. Each incident is thoroughly investigated to identify root causes and implement 
corrective actions to try to avoid reoccurrence. 
In Fiscal 2026, the Agency continued to issue safety advisories including environmentally focused best practices, such as for 
extreme heat or dangerous air quality, and observations gathered during inspections. These efforts were further strengthened 
by the introduction of regular environmental site visits, now a key component of the Agency’s efforts to ensure compliance. The 
Safety & Site Support division also remained active in pre-construction meetings and site walkthroughs to ensure compliance 
with safety, environmental, and quality protocols and to assist contractors in developing project-specific safety plans. 
To further enhance safety awareness, the Safety & Site Support division conducted regular outreach efforts throughout the 
year, including monthly jobsite visits engaging contractors and project teams. These visits foster open discussions on safety 
and quality and have been expanded to incorporate dedicated conversations around environmental topics. DDC also hosted 
its annual Safety Summit, bringing together project staff, construction managers, and contractors for presentations and 
training sessions focused on hazard recognition and accident prevention. Throughout the year, the Agency also conducted 
numerous additional sessions to further reinforce safety awareness and best practices.
<<<PAGE 381>>>
DEPARTMENT OF DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION  |  Page 369
DDC audited 100 percent of projects and completed over 3,000 safety, environmental, and quality compliance audits and 
inspections in Fiscal 2026. The implementation of Scorecard Plus (SCP), a mobile auditing application, has transformed the 
inspection process, allowing auditors to capture field observations, annotate photos, and submit paperless reports directly 
from their devices. These reports are shared in near real-time with supervisors and project staff, significantly improving 
responsiveness to emerging issues. When high-risk deviations are identified that pose a threat to life or property, DDC 
auditors remain onsite until the hazard is resolved. The stop work order policy continues to be a preventive tool used to 
address imminent hazards identified during audits, enhancing the impact of field inspections and evaluations. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Construction-related accidents 24 12 27 18 27 * * Up Down
 Construction-related injuries 24 12 27 18 27 ò ò Up Down
 Construction-related fatalities 0 0 2 0 0 ò ò Neutral Down
Projects audited (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 95% 95% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Improve customer satisfaction ratings.
To gauge how DDC’s projects are being received, DDC issues Post-Construction Satisfaction surveys to many of the 
stakeholders affected by infrastructure projects and to the agencies that sponsor public buildings projects. In Fiscal 2026, 
DDC received 18 survey responses representing seven percent of eligible projects, down from 584 responses across 49 
percent of the portfolio in Fiscal 2025. Of the responses, 67 percent rated DDC’s completed projects as adequate or better, 
a 30 percentage-point decrease from 97 percent in Fiscal 2025, and below the target of 90 percent for the first time since 
Fiscal 2022. These declines are due in part to a drop in the number of eligible projects surveyed. An eligible project is 
large in scope within a defined geographic location, has a designated Community Construction Liaison, and has reached 
substantial completion—24 projects were surveyed in Fiscal 2026 compared to 51 in Fiscal 2025. DDC is undergoing a 
review of its survey procedures to better capture feedback before a project reaches substantial completion to boost survey 
returns. In addition to the survey feedback, DDC responds to concerns from NYC 311 and is in constant communication 
with field construction staff on-site to mitigate issues.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Eligible projects with completed post-construction surveys (%) 48% 21% 18% 49% 7% * * Down Up
Post-construction satisfaction — Surveys returned 98 71 33 584 18 * * Up Up
Respondents rating a completed project as adequate or better (%) 81% 100% 90% 97% 67% 90% 90% Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 90% 90% Neutral Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 99% 90% 90% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 382>>>
Page 370  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $201.6 $228.4 $171.9 $162.2 $175.8 $178.9 $164.4 Down
Revenues ($000) $6.6 $26.3 $0.0 $0.7 $0.1 $50.0 $50.0 Down
Personnel 1,131 1,076 1,099 1,159 1,165 1,217 1,225 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $1.4 $1.7 $1.5 $1.2 $1.1 $1.1 $1.1 Neutral
Capital commitments (capital projects managed for cli -
ent agencies) ($000,000) $2,193.7 $2,441.6 $2,548.0 $4,657.4 $4,196.3 $3,862.0 NA Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $121.7 $127.65
        001 - Design and Engineering $113.9 $118.4 All
        003 - Executive, Administrative, and Capital Planning $7.8 $9.3 1a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $40.5 $48.2 
        002 - Design and Engineering $24.4 $33.9 All
        004 - Executive, Administrative, and Capital Planning $16.15 $14.3 1a
Agency Total $162.2 $175.8 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.   
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Paul A. Ochoa was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Design and Construction in April 2026. 
• Previously published Fiscal 2027 targets were adjusted based on updated portfolio estimates as follows: ‘Design 
completed’ was changed from 74 to 64, ‘Construction completed’ from 73 to 70, ‘Roadway lane miles reconstructed’ 
from 15.0 to 46.4, ‘Sewers (new and replaced)(miles)’ from 5.0 to 3.3, ‘Water mains (new and replaced)(miles)’ from 
9.0 to 10.5, ‘Pedestrian ramp corners installed’ from 4,035 to 3,843, and ‘Coastal protection constructed (linear feet)’ 
from 5,750 to 4,702. The target for ‘Rain gardens installed’ was adjusted from 19 to 22, ‘Infiltration basins installed’ 
from 36 to 20, and ‘Porous pavements installed (square feet)’ from 100,492 to 98,970.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to: 
• Strategic Blueprint 2025, Capital Project Delivery Progress Update: 
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/ddc/downloads/publications/2025_Strategic_Blueprint.pdf
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/ddc.
<<<PAGE 383>>>
Promoting Viable 
Communities & 
Neighborhoods
<<<PAGE 384>>>
Promoting Viable Communities 
& Neighborhoods
Department of  
City Planning p 373
New York City 
Economic Development 
Corporation p 385
Department of Housing 
Preservation and 
Development p 395
New York City  
Housing Authority p 411
Landmarks Preservation 
Commission p 421
<<<PAGE 385>>>
DEPARTMENT OF  
CITY PLANNING Sideya Sherman, Director
DEPARTMENT OF CITY PLANNING  |  Page 373
WHAT WE DO
The Department of City Planning 
(DCP) plans for the future of New 
York City, working to create equitable, 
thriving and dynamic neighborhoods 
with access to housing, jobs, resilient 
infrastructure, and a vibrant public 
realm. The Agency seeks to leverage the 
City’s greatest strengths, its unparalleled 
diversity and resilient spirit, and helps 
to ensure that investments, including 
private investments, benefit the City as 
a whole. 
DCP’s work is guided by five strategic 
pillars. First, the Agency emphasizes 
inclusive planning by engaging 
communities to develop plans and 
studies that reflect diverse perspectives, 
address local and citywide needs, 
enhance public spaces, and tackle 
historic inequities. Second, sustainability 
is a key focus in all areas of DCP’s work, 
with efforts to prepare for climate 
change, economic shifts, and disasters at 
the forefront of planning for long-term 
resilience and adaptability. Third, the 
Agency seeks to expand housing access 
by encouraging growth, dismantling 
exclusionary barriers, and supporting 
the creation of housing for all New 
Yorkers. Fourth, DCP fosters economic 
opportunity through promoting job 
creation, meeting evolving business 
needs, and encouraging accessible 
commercial activity. Lastly, DCP 
promotes informed decision-making 
by supporting land use applications, 
conducting policy research, and creating 
open data and civic engagement tools. 
DCP supports the City Planning 
Commission (CPC) in its annual review 
of hundreds of land use applications. 
Additionally, the Agency works closely 
with the Office of Management and 
Budget (OMB) in developing the City’s 
Ten-Year Capital Strategy.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
DCP is strongly focused on equity and supporting fair housing to help create a City that 
works for everyone. Through citywide and neighborhood plans, streamlined rules, and 
faster development processes, the Agency supports the City’s affordability agenda while 
working to ensure that communities are inclusive and thriving, and that opportunity 
is more evenly shared among New Yorkers. 
DCP is working to ensure that its staff reflects the City’s diversity and that the Agency 
is an inclusive workplace that pursues equitable planning practices, including building 
trust and increasing transparency through thorough public engagement. DCP’s 
Community Planning and Civic Engagement division conducts in-depth, collaborative 
conversations with New Yorkers of all ages to incorporate community voices and 
broaden public participation in the Agency’s planning efforts. 
DCP is deeply committed to advancing Block by Block, the Administration’s 
comprehensive strategy to address New York City’s housing crisis and make the 
City more affordable for working people. The Agency’s work toward this goal 
includes using new voter-approved public review fast tracks to speed up affordable 
housing development, collaborating closely with communities to develop ambitious 
neighborhood plans that prioritize local needs, and updating outdated or exclusionary 
zoning to build more income-restricted and transit-accessible housing across the City.
DCP is utilizing innovative new tools to accelerate housing delivery including the 
Expedited Land Use Review Procedure (ELURP), a fast-track review process for modest 
affordable housing and climate resiliency proposals passed by voters in November 
2025. ELURP speeds up public review for many affordable housing projects and unlocks 
housing opportunities that were difficult or virtually impossible to advance through 
the Uniform Land Use Review Process (ULURP). The Agency is also a partner of the 
Land Inventory Fast Track (LIFT) and Streamlining Procedures to Expedite Equitable 
Development (SPEED) Task Forces, which identify bureaucratic barriers to development 
and provide recommendations to accelerate and expand housing production. 
DCP has moved swiftly to implement these new tools. In the second half of Fiscal 
2026, the Agency began advancing qualifying housing projects through ELURP . DCP 
also launched the rulemaking process for the Affordable Housing Fast Track, a process 
that will make it easier to build affordable housing in the 12 Community Districts that 
produced the least affordable housing over the prior five years.
In addition, DCP continues to work with New Yorkers on neighborhood plans that spur 
housing and job growth and guide community investments. Recent examples include 
the Midtown South Mixed-Use Plan in Manhattan as well as the Jamaica Neighborhood 
Plan and the OneLIC Neighborhood Plan in Queens, all approved by City Council in 
Fiscal 2026. In May 2026, DCP launched new planning efforts along White Plains Road 
in the Bronx and in neighborhoods south of Prospect Park in Brooklyn. Both initiatives 
are in the early stages of community outreach. 
To support equitable capital investment across neighborhoods in the City’s budget 
process, DCP works with the Mayor’s Office of Management and Budget and all 59 
Community Boards to produce annual Statements of Community District Needs and 
Budget Requests. These materials are posted on DCP’s Community District Profiles 
webpage, along with results of a 12-language survey. DCP also provides Community 
Board training on planning principles, initiatives, and more.
<<<PAGE 386>>>
Page 374  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Shape the use and development of New York City to make it more equitable, prosperous, 
resilient, and sustainable citywide.
Goal 1a Advance land use proposals for public review that have a positive, citywide impact and help improve equity 
and/or quality of life for all New Yorkers.
Goal 1b Advance the creation of market rate and income-restricted housing to tackle the housing crisis and make 
sure all New Yorkers have access to affordable, safe homes.
SERVICE 2 Foster growth and resiliency through holistic neighborhood planning efforts.
Goal 2a Advance community-focused land use proposals for public review that promote housing and affordability, 
economic development, enhanced infrastructure, and sustainability.
SERVICE 3 Manage land use and environmental review processes to facilitate public and private 
development citywide.
Goal 3a Conduct timely and thorough review of simple zoning actions, subject to City Planning Commission review.
Goal 3b Conduct timely and thorough review of zoning actions with City Environmental Quality Review (CEQR) 
requiring an Environmental Assessment Statement (EAS), subject to City Planning Commission review.
Goal 3c Conduct timely and thorough review of zoning actions with City Environmental Quality Review (CEQR) 
requiring an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), subject to City Planning Commission review.
Goal 3d Conduct timely and thorough review of non-zoning City projects, subject to City Planning Commission review.
Goal 3e Conduct timely and thorough review of renewals, subject to City Planning Commission review.
SERVICE 4 Prepare information and policy analysis for the public, other government agencies, and elected 
officials.
Goal 4a Provide quality technical and strategic planning expertise to the public, other City agencies, and elected 
officials to support decision-making.
<<<PAGE 387>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITY PLANNING  |  Page 375
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Shape the use and development of New York City to make it more equitable, prosperous, 
resilient, and sustainable citywide.
Goal 1a Advance land use proposals for public review that have a positive, citywide impact and help improve 
equity and/or quality of life for all New Yorkers.
In Fiscal 2026, DCP advanced citywide proposals and studies through 14 information sheets, presentations, and videos, 
a slight decline from the 18 advanced in Fiscal 2025. Among the vital citywide policy materials published was the NYC 
Industrial Plan. This comprehensive framework by DCP , the Department of Small Business Services (SBS), and the New York 
City Economic Development Corporation (EDC) looks to bolster the development and adaptation of a modern, sustainable 
industrial economy. Other materials released included videos regarding the voter-approved City Charter land use reforms that 
are cutting red tape for modest affordable housing projects, the Agency’s support of changes to the State Environmental 
Quality Review Act (SEQRA) while it was being debated in the New York State Legislature, and ongoing work to lower 
storefront vacancies citywide.
In Fiscal 2026, DCP also advanced materials pertaining to Sprint, a new, expedited pre-certification pathway for certain 
housing projects that are exempt from environmental review under recently approved reforms to SEQRA. Implementing 
Sprint is a key piece of the City’s Streamlining Procedures to Expedite Equitable Development (SPEED) report, a sweeping 
set of reforms to deliver affordable housing faster across New York City. While Sprint is in its early stages, it is expected to 
help the Agency deliver affordable housing faster by reducing the pre-certification timeline for eligible projects.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Citywide proposals and studies advanced 9 26 91 18 14 ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Advance the creation of market rate and income-restricted housing to tackle the housing crisis and make 
sure all New Yorkers have access to affordable, safe homes.
Land use actions advanced into the public review process by DCP and reviewed by the City Planning Commission (CPC) 
change the existing rules and regulations for how land is zoned and used, such as residential, commercial, and manufacturing 
districts. One of DCP’s main goals is to promote land use actions that create new housing. 
In Fiscal 2026, the CPC reviewed land use actions from public and private applications that are projected to create a total 
of 13,730 homes across all five boroughs—enough to house over 30,000 New Yorkers. Of these homes that entered 
public review, 5,138 would be income-restricted and affordable, either through DCP’s Mandatory Inclusionary Housing 
(MIH) requirement or from a City agency or non-profit funding source, an 85 percent decrease from the 35,181 affordable 
homes projected in Fiscal 2025. The 13,730 homes projected in Fiscal 2026 marks a 79 percent decrease from the 64,523 
homes projected in Fiscal 2025. The exceptional Fiscal 2025 numbers were driven by four neighborhood plans, which 
alone accounted for over 40,000 new homes. These plans were the culmination of multiyear planning and community 
engagement efforts, similar to those now underway on White Plains Road and south of Prospect Park. 
By contrast, the homes reviewed in Fiscal 2026 all came from individual projects, which are inherently smaller than 
neighborhood plans. Notable Fiscal 2026 projects include 395 Flatbush Avenue Extension and Monitor Point in Brooklyn, 
which together would create over 2,300 new homes; DeWitt Clinton Park North, a project on Manhattan’s West Side 
with 1,200 new homes, 147-14 Northern Boulevard, which could bring 400 new homes to Flushing, Queens, and a new 
development along Hamilton Avenue in St. George, Staten Island which would create 370 homes. 
In Fiscal 2026, the CPC also approved 50,227 new homes, enough to house over 120,000 New Yorkers, nearly double the 
27,746 homes approved last fiscal year. The number of homes approved differs from the number of homes reviewed by 
the Commission as it captures homes that may have started public review in the previous fiscal year but were approved in 
this fiscal year. Namely, the same four neighborhood plans that started public review in Fiscal 2025 were approved by the 
CPC in Fiscal 2026.
<<<PAGE 388>>>
Page 376  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
In March 2026, DCP issued its Housing Production Snapshot to inform New Yorkers about how many homes were built in 
Calendar 2025 and where they are located. This report will continue to offer insight into housing production both at the 
citywide and neighborhood levels each year. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Homes projected through land use actions reviewed by 
the City Planning Commission NA NA 20,748 64,523 13,730 * * NA *
Affordable homes projected through land use actions 
reviewed by the City Planning Commission NA NA 8,559 35,181 5,138 * * NA *
Homes approved by the City Planning Commission 7,809 12,473 19,872 27,746 50,227 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2  Foster growth and resiliency through holistic neighborhood planning efforts.
Goal 2a Advance community-focused land use proposals for public review that promote housing and affordability, 
economic development, enhanced infrastructure, and sustainability.
In Fiscal 2026, DCP advanced neighborhood proposals and studies through 31 information sheets, presentations, videos 
and other public-facing materials, a slight decrease from the 39 presented in Fiscal 2025. This is due to the approval of 
multiple neighborhood plans in the first half of the fiscal year, with most of the materials related to them being generated 
during that time.
Approved by the New York City Council in August 2025, the Midtown South Mixed-Use Plan will create over 9,500 new 
homes across 42 blocks of Manhattan where housing was previously not allowed. This plan will ensure that over 2,800 
of those homes are permanently affordable, in accordance with Mandatory Inclusionary Housing (MIH) regulations that 
require 20 to 30 percent of new residential floor area to be dedicated as permanently income-restricted affordable housing.
The Jamaica Neighborhood Plan, approved by the City Council in October 2025, will spur the construction of 12,000 new 
homes, including 4,000 permanently income-restricted affordable homes, in a 230-block area of this transit-accessible 
neighborhood. The plan also includes new commercial and industrial space, creation of 7,000 jobs, over $400 million in 
infrastructure including sewer upgrades to reduce flooding, new and improved public spaces, and safer streets. It was quickly 
followed by the approval of the OneLIC Long Island City Neighborhood Plan in November 2025, which will generate around 
14,700 new homes, including 4,350 permanently income-restricted affordable homes, the greatest amount of housing 
generated by a neighborhood-specific rezoning in at least 25 years. The plan will also facilitate 14,400 more jobs, create a 
connected waterfront between Gantry Plaza State Park and Queensbridge Park, and deliver other significant investments.
DCP continues to prioritize neighborhood plans that create new and affordable housing, better jobs, more economic 
activity, and infrastructure improvements. The White Plains Road Neighborhood Plan aims to bolster housing opportunities 
along a key, transit-accessible corridor in the North Bronx and intersecting commercial streets that are currently dominated 
by one- and two-story strictly commercial buildings and have seen little new housing or affordable housing. The South 
of Prospect Plan will look to support more transit-oriented, mixed-use development with permanent affordable housing, 
expand jobs and services, and support investments in the public realm along portions of Coney Island and McDonald 
Avenues in Brooklyn below Prospect Park.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Neighborhood proposals and studies advanced 14 20 73 39 31 ñ ñ Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 389>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITY PLANNING  |  Page 377
SERVICE 3 Manage land use and environmental review processes to facilitate public and private 
development citywide.
Goal 3a Conduct timely and thorough review of simple zoning actions, subject to City Planning Commission 
review.
DCP reviews all zoning actions that go before the City Planning Commission. Zoning actions are split by type. Simple zoning 
actions, which can include one or more land use applications, often include authorizations and certifications. In Fiscal 2026, 
more projects entered public review as simple zoning actions than in previous years, and they moved through review faster 
than before. This is primarily due to the implementation of DCP’s Green Fast Track program and recent SEQRA reforms, 
which have streamlined environmental review and accelerated the production of modest affordable housing projects, saving 
staff time and reducing costs for applicants.
In Fiscal 2026, DCP began public review for 68 projects with simple zoning actions, an increase from 53 such projects in 
Fiscal 2025. It took these projects a median of 258 days to enter public review in Fiscal 2026, down seven percent from 
Fiscal 2025. The share of projects able to start public review within 12 months improved to 69 percent, up from 64 percent 
in Fiscal 2025, but still just below the 70 percent target. This improvement can be attributed to the filling of the previously 
vacant Pipeline Manager role and the implementation of new pre-certification processes—both of which strengthened 
oversight of projects during the early stages and kept them advancing through the pipeline.
DCP set a target for all zoning applications to spend 65 percent or less of the time it takes for the projects to enter public 
review with the Agency, allowing the rest of the time to be spent with the applicant to update their proposal as needed. In 
Fiscal 2026, simple zoning projects were under DCP review for 58 percent of the time and with applicants for 42 percent 
of the time before entering public review, an improvement on the previous year’s proportion of 64 percent in DCP review 
and 36 percent with the applicant.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Simple zoning action projects that entered public review 76 53 69 53 68 * * Neutral *
 Simple zoning action projects that entered public review 
within 12 months (%) 78% 57% 61% 64% 69% 70% 70% Neutral Up
Median days for projects to enter public review NA NA 307 278 258 365 365 NA Down
Time that projects spent with DCP under review before enter -
ing public review (%) NA NA 61% 64% 58% 65% 65% NA Down
Time that projects spent with applicant before entering public 
review (%) NA NA 39% 36% 42% * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3b Conduct timely and thorough review of zoning actions with City Environmental Quality Review (CEQR) 
requiring an Environmental Assessment Statement (EAS), subject to City Planning Commission review.
Zoning actions with City Environmental Quality Review (CEQR) requiring an Environmental Assessment Statement (EAS) 
are complex projects that can include one or more land use applications and their associated environmental review. This 
includes zoning map changes, amendments to the zoning resolution, and zoning special permits. As a result of Green Fast 
Track, some of these projects can now be filed as simple zoning actions, which was not possible in prior years.
DCP began public review on 56 projects that require an EAS in Fiscal 2026, nearly equal to the 52 projects in Fiscal 2025. 
The percentage of these projects that started public review within 15 months of submission decreased from 43 percent in 
Fiscal 2025 to 38 percent in Fiscal 2026, remaining below the 70 percent target. It took a median of 572 days for projects 
with an EAS to enter public review, longer than the 482 days in Fiscal 2025 and falling short of the 456-day target. In Fiscal 
2026, these projects were with DCP for 58 percent of the time ahead of public review and with applicants for 42 percent 
of the time, surpassing the target.
These numbers reflect DCP’s continued efforts to work through the backlog of already-delayed projects in the pipeline. More 
than 30 percent of the projects in this category entered DCP’s pipeline between Fiscal 2019 and Fiscal 2023, contributing 
to the longer review timelines. 
<<<PAGE 390>>>
Page 378  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
DCP is implementing several reforms specifically designed to address these persistent delays. Green Fast Track reduces 
environmental review requirements for eligible projects, recent SEQRA reforms exempt additional qualifying projects from 
environmental review, and the new Sprint pathway is designed to reduce pre-certification review for eligible housing projects 
to six months. Together, these initiatives are intended to simplify requirements, reduce unnecessary review time, prevent 
new backlogs, and improve performance.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Zoning actions with CEQR (EAS) that entered public review 58 44 53 52 56 * * Neutral *
 Zoning actions with CEQR (EAS) that entered public 
review within 15 months (%) 48% 34% 32% 43% 38% 70% 70% Down Up
Median days for projects to enter public review NA NA 527 482 572 456 456 NA Down
Time that projects spent with DCP under review before 
entering public review (%) NA NA 61% 65% 58% 65% 65% NA Down
Time that projects spent with applicant before entering 
public review (%) NA NA 39% 35% 42% * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3c Conduct timely and thorough review of zoning actions with City Environmental Quality Review (CEQR) 
requiring an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), subject to City Planning Commission review.
Zoning actions with City Environmental Quality Review (CEQR) requiring an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) are 
complex projects that can include one or more land use applications that must be more deeply analyzed for significant 
adverse impacts in their associated environmental review. 
In Fiscal 2026, there were five projects requiring an EIS that started public review, down from 11 in Fiscal 2025. The 
number of projects with an EIS that started public review within 22 months decreased from 91 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 
40 percent in Fiscal 2026. Since this measure is based on a small number of highly complex projects, individual cases can 
significantly affect the annual result. The longer review period can be attributed to lengthy environmental reviews that 
involved complicated development sites spanning multiple blocks, projects involving multiple applicants, and coordination 
with numerous agencies whose input was required throughout the environmental review process. As DCP implements 
more streamlined processes, the Agency anticipates that these numbers will improve in the near future.
In Fiscal 2026, it took a median of 659 days for projects with CEQR requiring an EIS to enter public review. Although this 
was longer than the 369-day median in Fiscal 2025, it remains below DCP’s 669-day target. DCP is continuing to implement 
reforms to improve the consistency and timeliness of reviews for these complex projects.
EIS projects were under DCP review for 90 percent of the time ahead of public review and with non-DCP applicants for 10 
percent of the time. This reflects the fact that many of these complex applications were City-led initiatives with DCP as the 
lead applicant, and as such, there was no external applicant involved in the review process.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Zoning actions with CEQR (EIS) that entered public review 7 3 9 11 5 * * Up *
 Zoning actions with CEQR (EIS) that entered public review 
within 22 months (%) 86% 33% 89% 91% 40% 70% 70% Down Up
Median days for projects to enter public review NA NA 148 369 659 669 669 NA Down
Time that projects spent with DCP under review before 
entering public review (%) NA NA 90% 86% 90% 65% 65% NA Down
Time that projects spent with applicant before entering 
public review (%) NA NA 10% 14% 10% * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 391>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITY PLANNING  |  Page 379
Goal 3d Conduct timely and thorough review of non-zoning City projects, subject to City Planning Commission 
review.
Non-zoning City projects are land use actions submitted by public agencies or EDC. They can include individual sitings 
of City facilities, acquisition of property or office space by the City, housing approvals, business improvement districts, 
franchises, landmarks, and concessions. In Fiscal 2026, DCP began public review on 30 non-zoning City projects, slightly 
more than the 25 in Fiscal 2025. Of these projects, 62 percent of entered public review within six months, a decrease from 
100 percent in Fiscal 2025. Median days for non-zoning City projects to enter public review continued to out-perform the 
182-day target at 106 days in Fiscal 2026, though this is nearly double the 41 days in Fiscal 2025.
These numbers are primarily due to lengthy environmental reviews led by partner agencies rather than DCP . Because the 
timing of those reviews was largely outside the Agency’s control, several projects remained in the pipeline longer than they 
otherwise would have, lowering the percentage that entered public review within six months. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
City projects (non-zoning) that entered public review 32 9 34 25 30 * * Up *
 City projects (non-zoning) that entered public review 
within 6 months (%) 84% 89% 74% 100% 62% 70% 70% Down Up
Median days for projects to enter public review NA NA 50 41 106 182 182 NA Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3e Conduct timely and thorough review of renewals, subject to City Planning Commission review.
Project renewals include special permits for use (i.e. residential, commercial, manufacturing) or bulk (which determines the 
maximum size and placement of a building on a zoning lot), subject to terms of expiration. DCP reviewed four projects in 
this category in Fiscal 2026, up from three in Fiscal 2025. 
The percentage of renewal actions that began public review within six months in Fiscal 2026 was 50 percent, lower than 
the 67 percent in Fiscal 2025. This was due to two of the four renewals missing the target timeframe. The median number 
of days for these types of projects to enter public review decreased from 205 days in Fiscal 2025 to 135 days in Fiscal 2026, 
below the 182-day target. Since only four renewals entered public review in Fiscal 2026, variations in the timeline of any 
one project can affect the number of median days for all projects. 
 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Renewals that entered public review 71 56 19 3 4 * * Down *
 Renewals that entered public review within 6 months (%) 92% 89% 89% 67% 50% 70% 70% Down Up
Median days for projects to enter public review NA NA 89 205 135 182 182 NA Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 392>>>
Page 380  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 4 Prepare information and policy analysis for the public, other government agencies, and 
elected officials.
Goal 4a Provide quality technical and strategic planning expertise to the public, other City agencies, and elected 
officials to support decision-making.
In Fiscal 2026, DCP publicly presented 392 materials, including planning reports, presentations, datasets, and digital tools, 
related to land use, housing and zoning issues in New York City, down slightly from the 425 presented in Fiscal 2025. These 
materials include Principles in Place, which shows how the Agency’s Principles of Good Urban Design inform a diverse range 
of recent development projects; the latest edition of Newest New Yorkers, a comprehensive portrait of the City’s foreign-
born residents; and the 2025 Zoning Handbook, which demystifies land use rules and regulations.
DCP also fulfilled 1,569 requests for zoning verification letters in Fiscal 2026, a 35 percent increase over the 1,160 requests 
fulfilled in Fiscal 2025. These formal letters provide information about a property’s zoning designation and can be requested 
by building owners for any number of reasons including building financing, redevelopment, or sales. The number of zoning 
verification letters varies year-to-year based on the needs of individual site owners. Also in Fiscal 2026, DCP completed 
1,370 requests made to the Zoning Help Desk, a service where members of the public can call with a land use or zoning-
related question and receive a response from a zoning specialist within two business days. This marks a 38 percent decline 
from the 2,194 fulfilled in Fiscal 2025. Like zoning verification letters, Zoning Help Desk requests can vary year-to-year 
depending on the needs of site owners, developers, or members of the public.
During Fiscal 2026, DCP staff met with New York City Community Boards 282 times, offering assistance in all matters 
related to land use and zoning, through project presentations, Q&As, training seminars, and more—28 percent lower than 
the 393 meetings in Fiscal 2025, which included multiple sessions related to DCP’s four neighborhood plans that were 
advancing. During Fiscal 2026, most of the neighborhood plans were already beyond the Community Board stage of the 
public review process.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Planning information and policy analysis initiatives presented to 
the public 331 469 435 425 392 ñ ñ Neutral Up
Zoning verification letter requests fulfilled NA NA 753 1,160 1,569 * * NA *
Zoning Help Desk requests fulfilled NA NA 2,454 2,194 1,370 * * NA *
Community Board engagement requests fulfilled NA NA 869 393 282 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 76% 97% 96% 93% 100% 85% 85% Up Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 58% 100% 77% 100% 100% 50% 50% Up Up
Completed requests for interpretation 18 15 18 9 7 * * Down *
CORE facility rating 99 99 100 99 100 90 90 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 393>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITY PLANNING  |  Page 381
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $36.4 $39.7 $45.7 $49.1 $52.6 $58.2 $58.8 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $3.3 $3.4 $4.2 $3.5 $4.1 $2.7 $2.7 Down
Personnel 290 320 318 337 324 388 429 Up
Overtime paid ($000) $36 $39 $38 $38 $32 $32 $32 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $32.6 $36.9 
        001 - Personal Services $29.9 $34.0 All
        003 - Geographic Systems $2.6 $2.8 2a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $16.6 $15.8 
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $16.3 $15.5 All
        004 - Geographic Systems $0.3 $0.3 2a
Agency Total $49.1 $52.6 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter. 
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Sideya Sherman was appointed as Chair of the City Planning Commission and Director of the Department of City 
Planning in February 2026.
• Goal 3e was renamed from ‘Conduct timely and thorough review of renewals and South Richmond land use and 
zoning actions, subject to City Planning Commission review’ to ‘Conduct timely and thorough review of renewals, 
subject to City Planning Commission review.’ Indicators in this goal were renamed from ‘Renewals and South Richmond 
action projects that entered public review’ to ‘Renewals that entered public review’ and from ‘Renewals and South 
Richmond action projects that entered public review within 6 months (%)’ to ‘Renewals that entered public review 
within 6 months (%).’ The South Richmond Zoning Relief Plan, adopted in Fiscal 2023, simplified the approval process 
and removed red tape for small properties and individual homeowners. These actions are now as-of-right, not subject 
to CPC approval.
<<<PAGE 394>>>
Page 382  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
• Service 4 ‘Prepare information and policy analysis for the public, other government agencies, and elected officials.’ 
and Goal 4a ‘Provide quality technical and strategic planning expertise to the public, other City agencies, and elected 
officials to support decision-making.’ were renamed to include the Oxford comma to maintain grammatical consistency 
across the chapter.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information on items referenced in the narrative, go to:
• Block by Block: The Housing Plan for a New Era:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/dam/nycgov/nyc-main/pdf/2026/block-by-block-report.pdf 
• Expedited Land Use Review Procedure:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/planning/pages/planning/public-review 
• Affordable Housing Fast Track:  
https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCcharter/0-0-0-7598 
• Midtown South Mixed-Use Plan:  
https://www.midtownsouthplan.nyc/
• Jamaica Neighborhood Plan:  
https://www.jamaicaplan.nyc/
• OneLIC Long Island City Neighborhood Plan:  
https://www.licplan.nyc/
• White Plains Road Neighborhood Plan:  
https://www.nyc.gov/whiteplainsroad 
• South of Prospect Neighborhood Plan:  
http://nyc.gov/southofprospect 
• Community District Profiles:  
https://communityprofiles.planning.nyc.gov
• Community District Needs Survey:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/planning/downloads/pdf/planning/capital-planning/community-district-needs/english-
survey-for-gathering-input.pdf
• NYC Industrial Plan:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/planning/pages/our-work/plans/citywide/nyc-industrial-plan
• SPEED Report:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/dam/nycgov/nyc-main/pdf/2026/speed_report_051326.pdf
• Recent Charter Revisions Info Session Video:  
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xrPUdFvtVLk&t
• Streamlining SEQR Video:  
https://www.youtube.com/shorts/owyn8FIeyf0 
• Storefront Vacancies Video:  
https://www.youtube.com/shorts/bTod5TajXbk 
• City Planning Commission:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/planning/pages/commission
<<<PAGE 395>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITY PLANNING  |  Page 383
• Mandatory Inclusionary Housing:  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/planning/pages/our-work/plans/citywide/mandatory-inclusionary-housing
• 2025 Housing Production Snapshot:  
https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/1c9138dc24064b2e8142ff156345a719 
• Principles in Place—Design of a Sustainable Street:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/planning/downloads/pdf/planning/urban-design/principles-in-place/design-sustainable-
street.pdf
• Principles in Place—Design of a Civic Building:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/planning/downloads/pdf/planning/urban-design/principles-in-place/design-of-a-civic-
building.pdf
• Principles in Place—Design of a Multi-phase Development:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/planning/downloads/pdf/planning/urban-design/principles-in-place/design-multipurpose-
development.pdf
• Newest New Yorkers (2026 Edition):  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/planning/pages/our-work/reports/newest-new-yorker 
• New York City Zoning Handbook (2025 Edition):  
https://www.nyc.gov/content/planning/pages/zoning/zoning-handbook
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/dcp.
<<<PAGE 396>>>
Page 384  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 397>>>
NEW YORK CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT 
CORPORATION Anthony Shorris, President and CEO
NEW YORK CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION  |  Page 385
WHAT WE DO
New York City Economic 
Development Corporation (EDC) 
is a mission-driven, non-profit 
organization that works to foster 
a vibrant, inclusive, and globally 
competitive economy for all New 
Yorkers. EDC takes a comprehensive 
approach to this work through 
four main strategies: strengthen 
confidence in New York City as a 
great place to do business; grow 
innovative sectors with a focus on 
equity; build neighborhoods as 
places to live, learn, work, and play; 
and deliver sustainable infrastructure 
for communities and the City’s future 
economy. 
EDC’s neighborhood investments 
include major infrastructure 
upgrades, capital projects, real estate 
development, and management of 
City-owned properties.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
EDC works to expand affordability by advancing economic justice together with 
economic growth, training the City’s workforce in critical industries, advancing 
racial and gender equity in business and entrepreneurship, and investing in 
neighborhoods and infrastructure to ensure the benefits of economic growth are 
broadly shared by working-class New Yorkers across the five boroughs.
In Fiscal 2026, EDC advanced several projects to improve affordability and quality 
of life for New Yorkers. EDC launched N.Y.C. Groceries to expand citywide access 
to affordable, high-quality groceries, beginning with two sites: La Marqueta in 
East Harlem, Manhattan and The Peninsula in Hunts Point, Bronx. EDC issued a 
competitive Request for Proposals (RFP) to select store operators and established 
a core basket of nutritious everyday groceries to be sold at a 30 percent discount, 
with site selection underway in Brooklyn, Queens, and Staten Island toward the goal 
of one store per borough. EDC also released a Request for Expressions of Interest 
for a first-of-its-kind City-backed housing insurance program to lower property 
and liability insurance costs for affordable and rent-stabilized housing; advanced 
Sunset Park Solar, a 685-kilowatt project at the Brooklyn Army Terminal that will 
lower electricity costs for nearby renters, homeowners, and small businesses; and 
selected Throne Labs, Inc. in June 2026 to deliver 17 modular public restrooms 
expanding equitable access citywide.
EDC’s entrepreneurship programs continue to expand access to capital and 
networks for underrepresented entrepreneurs. Now in its fifth cohort, the Founder 
Fellowship has helped over 400 founders across nearly 250 startups raise $170 
million in capital since 2022. Women.NYC advanced gender representation in 
high-growth sectors through the launch of the Women.NYC Mentorship App and 
Scale Ready Studio, a business accelerator for women founders that graduated its 
first cohort this past Spring.
EDC also connects neighborhood investments with economic opportunity by 
aligning workforce programs, employer partnerships, and community organizations 
with its assets and major development projects. In Fiscal 2026, EDC released the 
Staten Island North Shore Workforce Fund RFP to expand workforce programs 
serving young adults, and supported Economic Mobility Networks in Sunset Park 
and Hunts Point to align training and career pathways with local needs, particularly 
near assets such as the South Brooklyn Marine Terminal offshore wind port and 
the Hunts Point Food Distribution Center. In East Brooklyn, EDC awarded $1.4 
million to five organizations expanding workforce programming in construction, 
entrepreneurship, industrial sectors, and the green economy. In Queens, the first 
880 affordable homes were delivered as part of the Willets Point redevelopment, 
which will also deliver public space, retail, and the City’s first all-electric stadium, 
built through a Project Labor Agreement with the Building & Construction Trades 
Council of Greater New York connecting New Yorkers to union careers.
<<<PAGE 398>>>
Page 386  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Ensure businesses, investors, and employees have confidence in New York City.
Goal 1a Strengthen business confidence and the City’s competitive position to help grow the City’s economy. 
SERVICE 2 Enable equitable growth and development of priority industries.
Goal 2a Advance projects and programs that foster inclusive innovation and economic growth.
SERVICE 3 Shape, grow, and strengthen neighborhoods where New Yorkers live, learn and work.
Goal 3a Cultivate dynamic, resilient, livable communities throughout the five boroughs.
SERVICE 4 Deliver future-forward infrastructure.
Goal 4a Develop and expand sustainable infrastructure across the City.
<<<PAGE 399>>>
NEW YORK CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION  |  Page 387
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Ensure businesses, investors, and employees have confidence in New York City.
Goal 1a Strengthen business confidence and the City’s competitive position to help grow the City’s economy. 
EDC works to make New York City the best city in the world for to work and do business. To strengthen the City’s 
competitive position, EDC attracts and retains jobs in sectors critical to the City by providing the resources for businesses 
both big and small to stay and grow, and leverages private investment to deliver public benefits, including affordable 
housing and sustainable infrastructure.
In Fiscal 2026, EDC advanced 221 units of 100 percent affordable housing and community facility space as part of the 
broader Willets Point project by closing on a 96-year ground lease with Queens Development Group, LLC (QDG), a joint 
venture of The Related Companies and Sterling Equities. All units will be available to residents earning up to 60 percent 
Area Median Income, with 30 percent reserved for formerly homeless individuals. Also in Queens, EDC sold a City-owned 
parcel to Wildflower, a New York City based developer specializing in sustainable urban infrastructure, for development 
of what will be New York City’s largest publicly accessible electric vehicle (EV) charging station, located just north of John 
F. Kennedy Airport. The project will feature 38 fast charging EV stations, operate 24/7, and serve all vehicle types, with a 
focus on the growing electric truck market. In Fiscal 2026, private investment leveraged on the sale or long-term lease of 
City-owned property was lower than Fiscal 2025, at $23.1 million compared to $810.0 million. The decrease was primarily 
attributable to ordinary variations in transaction timing and composition, the outsized impact of the Fiscal 2025 Etihad 
Park transaction (the upcoming Major League Soccer Stadium for the New York City Football Club), and the QDG ground 
lease, which was financed in large part by public subsidies that are not captured in private investment calculations.
EDC invested $282.6 million into the assets it manages in Fiscal 2026, up from $115.7 million in Fiscal 2025. Capital 
expenditures vary year to year depending on the size of projects during the reporting period. To expand opportunity 
for communities, capital expenditures in this period included improvements to several ferry landings in connection with 
expanded and improved ferry service as well as improvements to assets in Sunset Park such as the Brooklyn Army Terminal, 
including space for BATWorks, which will be an approximately 200,000 square foot climate innovation hub when completed. 
Capital expenditures also included MADE Bush Terminal, a hub for creative manufacturing, design, and production industries 
which saw several new leases, primarily with manufacturing and design-driven tenants, signed in Fiscal 2026.
EDC’s industry-focused programs help businesses in the life sciences, creative, green economy, and technology industries 
with skills training, networking opportunities, and capital needed to grow in New York City. In Fiscal 2026, these initiatives 
served 3,190 businesses, a decrease from 5,553 businesses in Fiscal 2025, due to the transfer of the Small Business Resource 
Network from EDC to the Department of Small Business Services. In April 2026, EDC launched the first cohort of NYC 
AI Nexus, an initiative designed to help small- and medium-sized businesses assess how AI could affect their operations 
and workforce. EDC also continues to advance opportunities in the green economy through WeSource NYC, a program 
supporting local industrial businesses enter the emerging offshore wind (OSW) industry.
In Fiscal 2026, New York City Industrial Development Agency (NYCIDA) closed 19 contracts estimated to generate more 
than $1.4 billion in City tax revenue, more than $3.5 billion in private investment, and 2,754 jobs within the first three 
years of their respective terms, representing increases of approximately 89 percent, 77 percent, and a more than 10-fold 
increase, respectively, over Fiscal 2025. A major contributor to these results is the Champlain Hudson Power Express (CHPE), 
for which NYCIDA benefits supported the construction of a converter station in Astoria, Queens that will transmit 1,250 
megawatts of hydroelectric power from Quebec to New York City, enough to provide electricity to more than one million 
households, advancing City and State clean energy goals. The project is expected to create 21 jobs, leverage more than 
$323.4 million in private investment, and generate more than $223.7 million in City tax revenue.
<<<PAGE 400>>>
Page 388  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Build NYC closed 11 contracts in Fiscal 2026, nearly double the prior fiscal year’s total. These projects are expected to 
generate more than $134 million in City tax revenue, leverage more than $1.4 billion in private investment, and create 516 
jobs over the first three years of their respective terms representing increases of 83 percent, 120 percent, and 30 percent, 
respectively, over Fiscal 2025. Notable transactions include those focused on improving quality of life conditions for New 
Yorkers, such as financing for a 260-unit continuing care retirement community in the Bronx that will expand housing and 
care options for older New Yorkers. The project is expected to create 74 full-time equivalent jobs, leverage $726 million 
in private investment, and generate $31 million in City tax revenue. Build NYC also supported the 487 West 129th Street 
Transitional Housing Development Fund Corporation in obtaining financing for the development of a 91-unit facility for 
families transitioning out of homelessness. The project is expected to create 47 jobs, leverage over $77 million in private 
investment, and generate over $2.9 million in City tax revenue.
New York City Neighborhood Capital Corporation (NYCNCC) fully deployed its remaining New Market Tax Credits (NMTCs) 
allocation in Fiscal 2025 and did not receive a new allocation from the US Treasury’s Community Development Financial 
Institutions (CDFI) Fund during Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Private investment leveraged on the sale/long-term lease of 
City-owned property ($000,000) $220.9 $140.4 $657.8 $810.0 $23.1 ñ ñ Up Up
Capital expenditures on asset management ($000,000) $56.4 $69.8 $144.1 $115.7 $282.6 * * Up *
 Businesses served by industry-focused programmatic initiatives 6,301 4,759 6,034 5,553 3,190 ñ ñ Down Up
NYCIDA contracts closed 9 8 8 20 19 * * Up Up
 Projected three-year job growth associated with closed 
NYCIDA contracts 115 152 169 239 2,754 ñ ñ Up Up
 Projected net City tax revenues generated in connection with 
closed NYCIDA contracts ($000,000) $143.1 $30.0 $151.6 $775.2 $1,464.6 ñ ñ Up Up
Private investment leveraged on closed NYCIDA projects 
($000,000) $83.2 $95.0 $557.6 $1,996.2 $3,529.4 * * Up Up
Build NYC contracts closed 12 13 6 6 11 * * Down Up
 Projected three-year job growth associated with closed Build 
NYC projects 308 332 80 396 516 ñ ñ Up Up
 Projected net City tax revenues generated in connection with 
closed Build NYC contracts ($000,000) $359.9 $137.6 $58.6 $89.6 $134.0 ñ ñ Down Up
Private investment leveraged on closed Build NYC projects 
($000,000) $498.3 $620.5 $197.2 $653.4 $1,440.2 * * Up Up
Projected net City tax revenues generated in connection with 
closed NYCNCC contracts ($000,000) NA $12.2 $52.6 $58.3 $0.0 * * NA Up
Private investment leveraged on closed NYCNCC projects 
($000,000) NA $47.5 $73.2 $43.8 $0.0 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Enable equitable growth and development of priority industries.
Goal 2a Advance projects and programs that foster inclusive innovation and economic growth.
EDC works to make more family-sustaining quality jobs in priority industries available and accessible to all New Yorkers, 
and to help diverse entrepreneurs and minority-owned businesses thrive. 
The number of people receiving skills training or work experience through EDC programs in Fiscal 2026 was 16,929, 
an increase of 68 percent compared to Fiscal 2025. Fiscal 2026 activity was driven largely by two of EDC’s signature 
partnerships: BioBus and Civic Hall at Union Square. BioBus, a nonprofit organization known for its state-of-the-art mobile 
labs, provides students of all ages with free STEM educational programming and hands-on training to prepare young New 
Yorkers for high-quality jobs in science, technology, healthcare, and the green economy. Civic Hall, a first-of-its-kind training 
and events hub dedicated to the technology workforce development community, continues to help the City’s tech sector 
grow and diversify by connecting New Yorkers to low- or no-cost training programs to ensure that all New Yorkers can 
pursue their education and professional goals without financial burden. 
<<<PAGE 401>>>
NEW YORK CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION  |  Page 389
The Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprise (M/WBE) participation rate, the ratio of the M/WBE contract 
expenditures to all contract expenditures, and M/WBE award rate, the ratio of the amount of EDC contracts awarded to 
M/WBE firms to all firms, were both 29 percent. The decrease in participation and award rates from Fiscal 2025 is largely 
attributable to a difference in the timing and composition of contract awards and subcontracting activity during any given 
fiscal year. The completion of several projects with historically strong M/WBE utilization contributed to the decrease in 
amount M/WBE contract expenditures in Fiscal 2026. EDC expects both the award and participation rate to increase as 
subcontracting activity advances on several large-scale infrastructure and capital projects, such as the relocation of the 
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene’s (DOHMH) Public Health Lab and repairs to the Staten Island Esplanade bulkhead. 
ConstructNYC (CNYC) and Waterfront Pathways (WFP) are EDC’s construction capacity-building programs that drive inclusive 
economic growth by building firm capacity, expanding access to project opportunities, and ensuring accountability for 
Minority, Women-Owned, and Disadvantaged Enterprises (M/W/DBE) participation across EDC projects. More specifically, 
CNYC connects small- to medium-sized M/W/DBEs to exclusive contracting opportunities on EDC projects valued up to $3 
million, while WFP expands access to opportunities in the off-shore wind and waterfront sectors. These projects provide 
pathways to jobs that expand the pie of economic opportunities for working New Yorkers.
In Fiscal 2026, EDC awarded $50 million in contracts to program participants, 47 percent more than was awarded in Fiscal 
2025, and provided training to 58 firms. The number of employees of cohort participants in Fiscal 2026 was 2,726, 70% 
more than Fiscal 2025. These programs help M/W/DBEs overcome barriers to competing for and securing public construction 
contracts, creating pathways for firms to grow and participate in larger projects. This impact is reflected in the success of 
program participants, who secured contracts exceeding $1 million on projects like the ones at the Brooklyn Army Terminal 
Building A renovations, the East 34th Street Heliport substructure rehabilitation, Staten Island Esplanade bulkhead repair, 
and Arthur Avenue Market renovations.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Square footage of assets actively managed by NYCEDC (000) 64,748.1 64,602.4 66,662.5 67,039.0 68,302.0 * * Neutral *
Private sector jobs in innovation industries (%) (CY) 15.5% 15.5% 14.9% 14.5% 14.2% * * Neutral Up
People receiving skills training / work experience through NYCEDC 
programs NA 5,660 11,876 10,090 16,929 * * NA Up
M/WBE participation rate (Local Law 1) (%) NA 31.7% 37.0% 30.0% 29.0% * * NA Up
— Minority (%) NA 18.1% 17.0% 13.0% 14.0% * * NA Up
— Asian (%) NA 5.4% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% * * NA Up
— Black (%) NA 5.1% 4.0% 3.0% 4.0% * * NA Up
— Hispanic (%) NA 7.6% 8.0% 5.0% 6.0% * * NA Up
— Non-Minority Women (%) NA 13.6% 20.0% 17.0% 15.0% * * NA *
 M/WBE award rate (Local Law 1) (%) NA 29.2% 39.0% 35.0% 29.0% * * NA *
— Minority (%) NA 14.6% 26.0% 16.0% 12.0% * * NA Up
— Asian (%) NA 8.3% 9.0% 7.0% 5.0% * * NA Up
— Black (%) NA 2.7% 5.0% 2.0% 2.0% * * NA Up
— Hispanic (%) NA 3.6% 12.0% 7.0% 5.0% * * NA Up
— Non-Minority Women (%) NA 14.6% 12.0% 19.0% 16.0% * * NA Up
M/WBE construction capacity building programs cohort participant 
ethnicity -  Minority (All) (%) NA 83% 82% 91% 81% * * NA *
— Asian (%) NA 31% 34% 30% 36% * * NA *
— Black (%) NA 24% 26% 35% 14% * * NA *
— Hispanic (%) NA 28% 21% 26% 31% * * NA *
— Non-Minority Women (%) NA 17% 18% 9% 19% * * NA *
M/WBE construction capacity building programs total award value 
to cohort participants ($000,000) NA $4 $8 $34 $50 * * NA Up
M/WBE construction capacity building programs - employees of 
cohort participants NA NA 762 1,603 2,726 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 402>>>
Page 390  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 3 Shape, grow, and strengthen neighborhoods where New Yorkers live, learn and work.
Goal 3a Cultivate dynamic, resilient, livable communities throughout the five boroughs.
Every New Yorker deserves to live in neighborhoods that celebrate community, culture, and opportunity. EDC strengthens 
neighborhoods by investing in buildings and infrastructure, managing City-owned properties, and funding projects that 
support local priorities. Through these efforts, EDC creates and improves space for family-sustaining jobs, businesses, 
community services, and other neighborhood uses, while engaging communities to help ensure that investments respond 
to local needs and contribute to more affordable, vibrant, and resilient neighborhoods.
Excluding capital expenditures on asset management and funding agreements, capital expenditures for design and 
construction projects managed by EDC’s Capital Program decreased 27 percent from $497.2 million in Fiscal 2025 to 
$362.5 million in Fiscal 2026. Significant drivers of EDC’s capital expenditures on these projects in Fiscal 2026 included 
approximately $37 million for the Battery Coastal Resilience Project, which completed its first phase in June 2026 and will 
help protect the area against sea-level rise, about $23 million of the continued revitalization of the Tompkinsville Esplanade 
on the North Shore of Staten Island, about $67 million on the Manhattan Waterfront Greenway, about $28 million on the 
reconstruction of the Orchard Beach Pavilion in the Bronx, and about $76 million on the relocation of the DOHMH Public 
Health Laboratory in to West 137th Street in Harlem. 
In Fiscal 2026, approximately $67.2 million in disbursements from City funding agreements helped create spaces that serve 
the needs of neighborhoods across the City. This represents a 28 percent decrease from the $93.4 million of disbursements 
in Fiscal 2025. In June 2026, EDC disbursed funding to the Kips Bay Boys’ and Girls’ Club, Inc. to help them transform a 
storage room in the Bronx into a new culinary teaching space, featuring cooking stations and a teaching kitchen to support 
culinary education. EDC also disbursed funding to Ohel Children’s Home and Family Services, Inc. which opened its newly 
renovated space at its headquarters in Midwood, Brooklyn in June 2026, allowing the organization to provide additional 
programming for individuals with lifelong disabilities and other life cycle needs. EDC also disbursed funding to New York 
Immigration Coalition, Inc., to support the acquisition of a commercial condominium to expand the organization’s capacity 
to provide critical services to immigrant and refugee rights groups across New York City.
In Fiscal 2026, there were 443 businesses located in EDC’s actively managed properties, up 10 percent from 404 in Fiscal 
2025. During Fiscal 2026, EDC continued efforts to attract businesses and strengthen activity at these properties. In May 
2026, EDC announced four new tenants occupying more than 58,000 square feet at Brooklyn Army Terminal (BAT), bringing 
manufacturing, design, and technology businesses to the campus. EDC also expanded public programming at BAT, Essex 
Market, and Moore Street Market as community destinations through cultural events, markets, and free World Cup watch 
parties. These efforts complement EDC’s ongoing leasing and property-management work to support businesses, activate 
City-owned assets, and strengthen economic activity in surrounding communities. Together, these activities bring people 
together in public spaces that celebrate community and opportunity for New Yorkers.
In Fiscal 2026, EDC facilitated 1,466 community engagements, a 25 percent increase from the 1,175 community engagements 
facilitated in Fiscal 2025. These engagements included community events, educational outreach, speaking engagements, 
groundbreaking events, and ribbon cuttings. EDC undertook a comprehensive planning process to shape the future of 
Empire Outlets and the former New York Wheel site next to the St. George Ferry Terminal in Staten Island. Community 
engagement began in parallel and included two public workshops, participation in more than a dozen community events, 
and a public survey with more than 300 responses. 
In Fiscal 2026, EDC’s programs and investments catalyzed the development or redevelopment of 6.22 million square feet of 
building space, compared to 6.97 million square feet in Fiscal 2025. The amount of building square footage reported each 
year varies depending on the timing of contract signings or groundbreakings. Key contributors to the Fiscal 2026 footprint 
include NYC Ferry Homeport II, a new homeport facility for NYC Ferry vessels at Atlantic Basin in Red Hook, Brooklyn, which 
will support the ferry system’s growing fleet and create maritime career opportunities.  EDC’s financial assistance programs 
also supported nearly 3 million square feet of building space, including schools, clean energy storage, commercial office 
space, social services, and manufacturing.
<<<PAGE 403>>>
NEW YORK CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION  |  Page 391
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Capital expenditures ($000,000) (excludes as -
set management and funding agreements) $516.2 $523.2 $491.0 $497.2 $362.5 * * Down *
 Occupancy rate of NYCEDC-managed 
property (%) 99.2% 99.1% 99.1% 98.7% 98.7% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Portfolio revenue generated ($000,000) $290.8 $313.2 $313.8 $342.1 $367.2 * * Up Up
Value of funding disbursed pursuant to City 
funding agreements ($000,000) $108.9 $169.7 $170.4 $93.4 $67.2 * * Down *
Businesses operating in properties actively 
managed by NYCEDC NA 378 380 404 443 * * NA *
Community engagements facilitated by EDC NA 455 626 1,175 1,466 * * NA Up
Square feet of building space to be developed 
or redeveloped through programs and invest -
ments (000) NA 1,417 6,471 6,969 6,224 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 4 Deliver future-forward infrastructure.
Goal 4a Develop and expand sustainable infrastructure across the City.
EDC helps build a more efficient, affordable, and climate-resilient New York City while expanding access to the essential 
public goods that create opportunities and improve quality of life. 
Through the implementation of rigorous analysis, public engagement, and careful considerations from the Ferry Optimization 
Plan, NYC Ferry offered a more accessible, efficient, and resilient public transportation system in Fiscal 2026. This is evidenced 
through an average of 612,273 riders per month, 7.3 million total riders, and an on-time performance of 94 percent, a less 
than one percent change for all metrics from Fiscal 2025, despite an unprecedented 15-day systemwide suspension during 
extreme cold weather in January and February. NYC Ferry continued to advance affordability, workforce development, and 
public transit access goals by providing discounted fares to students and Fair Fares recipients, maritime career pathways 
through workforce development events, and exploration of new routes to more communities.
In Fiscal 2026, to contribute to public space for New Yorkers, EDC catalyzed the development or redevelopment of 14.63 
acres of public space, including greenspace, open space, and park space, compared to 23.12 acres in Fiscal 2025. The 
amount of public space reported each year varies based on the timing of projects reaching groundbreakings on public 
space capital projects. Notable projects include the design and construction of Bush Terminal Pier 6 in Brooklyn as a public 
waterfront amenity; the conversion of the former FDR Drive bypass structure into a waterfront bikeway and pedestrian 
esplanade in Manhattan; infrastructure improvements along the Tompkinsville and New Stapleton esplanades in Staten 
Island; and restoration of the Vale of Cashmere in Brooklyn’s Prospect Park. In May 2026, the iconic Orchard Beach Pavilion 
in the Bronx reopened following a restoration project of its landmarked historic architecture and ADA accessibility upgrades 
led by NYC Parks and EDC. Together, these efforts expanded access to high-quality public amenities, improved neighborhood 
connectivity, and enhanced quality of life across the five boroughs.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Average monthly NYC Ferry ridership 447,782 549,705 593,019 616,498 612,273 * * Up Up
 Total NYC Ferry ridership NA 6,596,463 7,116,233 7,397,980 7,347,281 * * NA *
NYC Ferry on time performance (%) NA 96% 91% 94% 94% * * NA Up
Acres of open space to be developed or redeveloped 
through programs and investments NA 21.78 81.24 23.12 14.63 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 404>>>
Page 392  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Personnel 502 518 545 606 599 625 579 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $488.9 $434.0 $529.2 $387.7 $341.0 $1,152.9 $918.2 Neutral
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          “NA” - Not Available          * None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY252 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY263 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 4
        006 - Economic Development Corporation (OTPS) 1 $80.0 $92.8 All
1EDC is contained within the Department of Small Business Services and appropriations are made through that agency. These figures are limited to the City’s contribution and 
planned contribution respectively, to EDC.         2Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025. Includes all funds.      3Includes all 
funds.  4Refer to agency goals listed at front of chapter.
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Anthony Shorris was appointed President and CEO in July 2026. 
• Two previously published figures for the indicator ‘People receiving skills training/work experience through EDC 
programs’ in Goal 2a were revised downwards following a review of program data provided by a third-party survey 
administrator, which identified participants in EDC programs that did not meet EDC’s criteria for inclusion in this 
indicator. The Fiscal 2024 figure was revised from 12,477 to 11,876. The Fiscal 2025 figure was revised from 25,616 
to 10,090.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• NYC Groceries: 
https://edc.nyc/program/nyc-groceries
• Affordable Housing Insurance Program RFEI:  
https://edc.nyc/press-release/mamdani-admin-takes-on-rising-insurance-costs-with-new-housing-insurance-program
• Modular Public Restrooms: 
https://edc.nyc/press-release/nycedc-selects-throne-labs-pilot-high-quality-modular-public-restrooms-citywide
• Founder Fellowship: 
https://edc.nyc/founder-fellowship
• Women.NYC: 
https://edc.nyc/program/womennyc
• Willets Point: 
https://edc.nyc/project/willets-point
• Hunts Point: 
https://edc.nyc/project/hunts-point-peninsula
<<<PAGE 405>>>
NEW YORK CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION  |  Page 393
• State of the Economy Report: 
https://edc.nyc/sites/default/files/2026-02/NYCEDC-2025-State-of-NYC-Economy_2-12-2026.pdf
• Incentives Portfolio Annual Report: 
https://edc.nyc/sites/default/files/2025-11/NYCEDC -Incentives-Portfolio-Annual-Report-FY25_11-21-2025.pdf
• NYCEDC Impact Report: 
https://edc.nyc/sites/default/files/2025-04/NYCEDC -Impact-Report-2024-Digital-Accessible.pdf 
• Brooklyn Army Terminal (BAT): 
https://brooklynarmyterminal.com/
• NYC Ferry: 
https://ferry.nyc
• New York City Industrial Development Agency: 
https://edc.nyc/nycida
• Build NYC Resource Corporation: 
https://edc.nyc/build-nyc
• New York City Neighborhood Capital Corporation: 
https://edc.nyc/nycncc
• NYCEDC Opportunity M/W/DBE: 
https://edc.nyc/opportunity-mwdbe
• NYC AI Nexus: 
https://edc.nyc/program/nyc-ai-nexus
• WeSource NYC: 
https://wesource.nyc/
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/edc.
<<<PAGE 406>>>
Page 394  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 407>>>
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING PRESERVATION 
AND DEVELOPMENT Dina Levy, Commissioner
HOUSING PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 395
WHAT WE DO
The New York City Department 
of Housing Preservation and 
Development (HPD) promotes 
quality and affordability of the City’s 
housing, and diversity and strength 
in the City’s neighborhoods. The 
Agency carries out its mission 
through the following objectives: 
1. Maintaining building and 
resident safety and health. 
2. Creating opportunities for 
New Yorkers through housing 
affordability. 
3. Engaging New Yorkers to build 
and sustain neighborhood 
strength and diversity. 
FOCUS ON EQUITY
HPD strives to improve the availability, affordability, and quality of housing in all 
New York City neighborhoods while also creating opportunities for economic 
advancement. By enforcing the Housing Maintenance Code, HPD works to 
ensure that New Yorkers live in safe and habitable neighborhoods and homes. 
Through the development, preservation, and marketing of affordable housing, 
and the administration of rental subsidy programs, HPD seeks to ensure that 
New Yorkers of all incomes can access stable housing and choose the homes and 
neighborhoods that best fit their needs. Through neighborhood planning, HPD 
engages communities to combine new housing opportunities with the schools, 
healthcare facilities, retail, parks, community space, commercial space, open space, 
and other assets that neighborhoods need to thrive. 
In May 2026, the City published its housing plan, Block by Block: The Housing 
Plan for a New Era , an ambitious blueprint to tackle New York City’s housing 
crisis with the urgency and scale the moment demands. Block by Block represents 
an “all-of-the-above” strategy to tackle housing affordability, using every tool 
available. HPD is leveraging all aspects of the agency’s work to advance equitable 
housing outcomes—by building more affordable housing, protecting tenants from 
displacement and exploitation, expanding pathways to homeownership, preserving 
existing housing, and creating safe, well-paying jobs in the process.
In 2026, the administration also released the Streamlining Procedures to Expedite 
Equitable Development (SPEED) report, which details strategies to accelerate 
housing development; the Rental Ripoff Report, which outlines 23 tenant 
protection and code enforcement policy priorities; and the Land Inventory Fast 
Track (LIFT) Tracker, which identifies City-owned land where the administration is 
advancing affordable housing. In October 2025, the City released Where We Live 
2025, a comprehensive set of commitments to overcome barriers to fair housing 
in New York City and a required component of the Fair Housing Framework 
(FHF) required by City Council legislation enacted in 2023. Together, these plans 
advance strategies that strengthen HPD’s and the City’s commitment to advancing 
a comprehensive set of housing policies grounded in equity.
<<<PAGE 408>>>
Page 396  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Ensure that housing throughout New York City  is physically safe and habitable.
Goal 1a Respond to reported housing maintenance complaints efficiently.
Goal 1b Track and promote the resolution of housing maintenance violations.
Goal 1c Resolve significant or persistent housing quality issues through enforcement actions and litigation.
SERVICE 2 Provide opportunities for New Yorkers to live in housing that is affordable and financially 
stable.
Goal 2a Increase the quantity of affordable housing in New York City.
Goal 2b Increase the quantity of affordable housing in areas of New York City where housing will create the greatest 
benefit for its residents.
Goal 2c Increase the quantity of affordable housing for low-income and senior households.
Goal 2d Maintain the physical and financial stability of HPD’s affordable housing assets.
SERVICE 3 Efficiently offer New Yorkers housing-related subsidies and support.
Goal 3a Connect New Yorkers to affordable housing.
Goal 3b Optimize rental subsidies for low-income New Yorkers.
Goal 3c Increase the quantity of housing for people experiencing homelessness.
Goal 3d Streamline the process of securing housing (temporary, then permanent) for households displaced by fire or 
vacate orders.
SERVICE 4 Provide opportunities for New Yorkers to achieve economic advancement through housing-
related workforce opportunities.
Goal 4a Promote M/WBE participation in HPD subsidized affordable housing. 
Goal 4b Support wage growth and workforce growth in New York City through housing-related City contracting.  
<<<PAGE 409>>>
HOUSING PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 397
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Ensure that housing throughout New York City is physically safe and habitable.
Goal 1a Respond to reported housing maintenance complaints efficiently.
HPD protects the quality of New York City’s housing stock by enforcing the City’s Housing Maintenance Code. Members of 
the public log complaints primarily through 311, which creates a record of housing quality problems reported. HPD closes 
complaints A) when a tenant verifies the condition is corrected before an inspection is attempted or B) after HPD attempts 
an inspection. If an HPD inspector verifies the existence of a condition, HPD may issue a violation. Reasons for complaint 
closures are available via HPDONLINE or HPD’s Open Data problem dataset. Note that HPD must observe a condition in 
order to issue a violation and may close a complaint if it is unable to observe the condition. 
In Fiscal 2026, the total number of reported housing maintenance problems increased by 14 percent compared to Fiscal 
2025, with more than 950,000 problems reported. The number of unique housing maintenance problems requiring HPD 
response increased by 11 percent to more than 772,000. Emergency housing maintenance problems requiring an Agency 
response increased by 13 percent to 402,457, driven by a 17 percent increase in heat and hot water-related problems 
(nearly 189,000 problems in Fiscal 2026) and a 10 percent increase in other emergency problems. Immediate emergency 
problems also increased by 13 percent to 29,198, while non-emergency problems requiring HPD response rose by 10 
percent to 296,595. The overall increase in complaints required HPD to respond to higher volumes across all categories.
Compared to Fiscal 2025, HPD closed 14 percent more housing maintenance problems across all major categories, up to 
780,192 compared to 686,137 in Fiscal 2025. Specifically, HPD closed 15 percent more emergency problems (405,691 
compared to 352,869 in Fiscal 2025), including 17 percent more heat and hot water-related closures and 14 percent more 
emergency closures of other types. Overall, the growth in closures outpaced the increase in unique problems requiring HPD 
response; this increase in responses was driven mainly by the increase in complaints.
During the year, HPD prioritized inspection resources for increased heat and hot water complaints and fire vacate responses 
while responding to higher complaint volume overall. Although response times increased for some categories, this is likely 
due to the higher volume of overall complaints that HPD received and closed in Fiscal 2026. Response times remained stable 
for the most urgent categories, while increasing for several other types of complaints. HPD’s median time from reported 
problem to first inspection remained unchanged at 1.0 days for immediate emergency problems and rose slightly for heat 
and hot water inspections (1.9 days in Fiscal 2025, 2.0 in Fiscal 2026). HPD’s median time from reported problem to first 
inspection increased by 18 percent (from 4.9 to 5.8 days) for other emergency problems, by 32 percent (from 2.5 to 3.3 
days) for lead-based paint hazard inspections, and by 18 percent (from 6.0 to 7.1 days) for non-emergency problems. The 
median time to close emergency problems remained stable at 3.0 days, though the median time to close non-emergency 
problems increased from 10.0 to 12.0 days. Timely closure rates remained relatively stable for emergency complaints, with 
76 percent closed within 12 days and 84 percent within 21 days. The share of non-emergency problems closed within 
20 days declined from 71 percent to 65 percent. HPD continues to adapt its operations to ensure timely and adequate 
responses to all types of complaints received. 
<<<PAGE 410>>>
Page 398  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total housing maintenance problems reported 694,975 706,738 812,238 835,011 950,750 * * Up *
Unique housing maintenance problems requiring HPD 
response 583,312 597,620 702,132 694,831 772,415 * * Up *
Unique immediate emergency housing maintenance 
problems requiring HPD response 21,786 22,564 25,720 25,811 29,198 * * Up *
 Unique emergency housing maintenance problems 
requiring HPD response 300,662 303,305 350,720 357,028 402,457 * * Up *
— Heat and hot water 131,603 133,274 144,134 161,773 188,559 * * Up *
— Other emergency 169,059 170,031 206,586 195,255 213,898 * * Up *
Unique problems prompting lead-based paint hazard 
inspections 39,784 38,753 48,763 42,774 44,164 * * Up *
Unique non-emergency housing maintenance problems 
requiring HPD response 221,080 232,998 276,929 269,218 296,595 * * Up *
Housing maintenance problem inspections attempted 613,403 636,209 784,225 746,402 852,777 * * Up *
Median time to first inspection (days) — Immediate 
emergency problems 1.0 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.0 * * Neutral Down
Median time to first inspection (days) — Heat and hot 
water problems 2.1 2.0 1.6 1.9 2.0 * * Neutral Down
Median time to first inspection (days) — Other emer -
gency problems 5.3 6.0 5.2 4.9 5.8 * * Neutral Down
Median time to first inspection (days) — Lead-based 
paint problems 4.8 3.9 3.0 2.5 3.3 * * Down Down
Median time to first inspection (days) — Non-emergen -
cy problems 7.0 7.9 7.1 6.0 7.1 * * Neutral Down
Unique housing maintenance problems closed 577,134 571,703 707,232 686,137 780,192 * * Up *
Unique emergency housing maintenance problems 
closed 298,644 301,326 353,239 352,869 405,691 * * Up *
— Heat and hot water 131,658 133,247 144,106 161,766 188,537 * * Up *
— Other emergency 166,986 168,079 209,133 191,103 217,154 * * Up *
Unique problems prompting lead-based paint hazard 
inspections closed 39,791 39,073 48,859 42,630 44,122 * * Up *
 Median time to close emergency problems (days) 4.0 4.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 ò ò Down Down
 Median time to close non-emergency problems 
(days) 13.0 13.0 12.0 10.0 12.0 ò ò Down Down
 Unique emergency housing maintenance problems 
closed within 12 days of receipt (%) 74% 74% 75% 79% 76% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Unique emergency housing maintenance problems 
closed within 21 days of receipt (%) 85% 84% 84% 88% 84% * * Neutral Up
Unique non-emergency problems closed within 20 days 
of receipt (%) 68% 65% 66% 71% 65% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 411>>>
HOUSING PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 399
Goal 1b Track and promote the resolution of housing maintenance violations.
Overall violation issuance remained stable in Fiscal 2026, though violation activity varied by category, reflecting changes 
in the types of complaints received. Though the number of Class C (immediately hazardous) violations issued remained 
relatively stable, decreasing by three percent to 278,252, the makeup of these violations varied widely compared to Fiscal 
2025. Within Class C, the number of heat violations issued increased by 31 percent (to 11,883 compared to 9,055 in Fiscal 
2025), and the number of hot water violations issued increased by 19 percent (to 18,118 compared to 15,190 in Fiscal 
2025), reflecting the higher volume of related complaints received during the year. In contrast, the number of lead-based 
paint hazard violations issued declined by 15 percent, continuing a downward trend. HPD conducted fewer inspections in 
apartments with children under six, potentially contributing to this trend. (One of the preconditions for the issuance of a 
lead-based paint violation is that a child under six resides in the apartment.)
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total violations issued 730,537 722,597 895,457 878,481 874,522 * * Up *
Class A non-hazardous violations 242,459 217,167 228,273 217,595 215,818 * * Neutral *
Class B hazardous violations 298,835 287,550 379,303 372,811 380,452 * * Up *
 Class C immediately hazardous violations 189,243 217,880 287,881 288,075 278,252 * * Up *
— Heat 4,875 6,211 9,204 9,055 11,883 * * Up *
— Hot Water 8,198 10,395 14,199 15,190 18,118 * * Up *
— Lead-based paint hazard 15,715 18,112 21,854 20,380 17,238 * * Up *
— Self-closing doors 30,680 49,897 73,325 72,714 68,660 * * Up *
— Other Class C 129,775 133,265 169,299 170,736 162,353 * * Up *
Class C violations certified as corrected (%) 37% 41% 42% 43% 41% * * Up Down
Class C violations for which HPD initiated the emergency repair 
process (%) 58% 60% 61% 62% 63% * * Neutral Up
Class C emergency repair violations corrected by owner (%) 53% 50% 49% 49% 52% 55% 55% Neutral Up
Class C emergency repair violations corrected by HPD (%) 9% 7% 7% 7% 8% * * Neutral Down
 Class C violations closed (%) 56% 56% 57% 60% 60% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Violations closed 554,558 596,736 782,576 847,206 800,112 * * Up Up
Inspection visits per team per day 9.4 10.5 11.8 11.4 11.9 * * Up Up
Ratio of completed inspections to attempted inspections (%) 81% 82% 83% 84% 83% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Resolve significant or persistent housing quality issues through enforcement actions and litigation.
HPD enforces the Housing Maintenance Code through inspections, litigation, emergency repairs, and targeted enforcement 
programs designed to improve building conditions and hold owners accountable. HPD expanded its enforcement activity 
across several key programs in Fiscal 2026. The number of distinct units affected by HPD’s emergency repair work increased 
by 13 percent to 200,631, driven primarily by an increase in self-closing door repairs in public areas. The number of units 
discharged from the Alternative Enforcement Program (AEP) increased by 11 percent, from 4,592 to 5,078 units, due to 
an increase in the number of units associated with the 250 buildings selected annually for this enhanced enforcement 
program. Units discharged from Underlying Conditions (UC) more than quadrupled from 234 to 1,216 units, reflecting 
the successful resolution of more housing court cases requiring compliance with UC orders. Meanwhile, the number of 7A 
units discharged increased 68 percent, from 31 to 52 units, due to larger buildings exiting the program. HPD also increased 
its proactive building visits for Fire Vacate Monitoring by 27 percent to 5,162 visits, in response to a 37 percent increase in 
vacate orders issued by the Fire Department after buildings experienced fire damage. 
<<<PAGE 412>>>
Page 400  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Overall, Fiscal 2026 reflects HPD’s continued commitment to strengthening housing code enforcement through a combination 
of litigation, proactive inspections, emergency repair work, and targeted enforcement programs. Increased compliance 
across AEP , UC, and 7A initiatives, together with expanded emergency repair and monitoring activities, demonstrate HPD’s 
ongoing efforts to improve housing conditions and ensure safer homes for New Yorkers.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Units in buildings where Comprehensive Litigation was closed due 
to compliance with the Order to Correct and payment of any civil 
penalties 5,541 6,007 5,335 3,805 3,546 * * Down *
 Violations dismissed as a result of Comprehensive Litigation 
closed due to compliance with the Order to Correct 31,787 35,480 36,181 21,934 21,573 * * Down *
Distinct units affected by emergency repair work completed pursu -
ant to HPD emergency repair generating violations 53,687 71,075 164,271 177,416 200,631 * * Up *
Units in buildings discharged from the Alternative Enforcement 
Program due to owner compliance 4,133 2,810 3,374 4,592 5,078 * * Up *
Units in buildings discharged from the Underlying Conditions pro -
gram due to owner compliance 223 173 27 234 1,216 * * Up *
Units in buildings discharged from 7A or where there is compliance 
with a 7A Consent Order 36 18 6 31 52 * * Up *
Proactive Building Visits — Heat Sensor Program 906 1,738 1,648 1,768 1,937 * * Up *
Proactive Building Visits — Fire Vacate Monitoring 3,934 3,667 3,814 4,075 5,162 * * Up *
Proactive Building Visits — Anti-Harassment Unit 1,053 973 872 1,079 1,168 * * Up *
Proactive Building Visits — Self-closing Door Survey NA NA 354 338 339 * * NA *
Proactive Building Visits — Division of Neighborhood Preservation 3,791 3,322 3,734 3,809 3,897 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Provide opportunities for New Yorkers to live in housing that is affordable and financially 
stable.
Goal 2a Increase the quantity of affordable housing in New York City.
In Fiscal 2026, the City financed the creation and preservation of 26,913 affordable units, exceeding its target by 35 
percent, or more than 6,000 units. New construction production accounted for approximately 49 percent of this total, 
with 13,121 units, the fourth highest number of new construction units for a fiscal year in the City’s history. Preservation 
made up approximately 51 percent of production, with 13,792 units. 
In Fiscal 2026, the Agency financed 25,370 rental units (94 percent of total affordable housing starts), the third-highest 
number of rental units in Agency history and in line with last year’s production. These production levels reflect HPD’s 
commitment to investing in the creation and preservation of as many affordable housing units as possible. The share of 
homeownership units financed decreased by two percentage points in Fiscal 2026, from 8 percent to 6 percent of total 
affordable housing starts, largely because HPD had preserved a particularly large number of existing Housing Development 
Fund Corporation (HDFC) and Mitchell-Lama co-op units in Fiscal 2025. However, HPD financed more Open Door units 
(new construction homeownership) than ever last year, and HPD has committed to further increasing new construction 
homeownership production for Fiscal 2027 and Fiscal 2028 as part of Block by Block, released in June 2026. 
In Fiscal 2026, the City also completed 26,971 affordable housing units, exceeding its completions target of 18,500 by 
nearly 46 percent, the second-highest total in the Agency’s history. The share of homeownership units completed dropped 
by 12 percentage points to 1 percent, reflecting the mix of projects that completed in Fiscal 2026. HPD continues to work 
closely with development partners to keep projects on track and ensure timely completions.
<<<PAGE 413>>>
HOUSING PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 401
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Total affordable housing starts (units) 17,461 25,453 26,457 28,852 26,913 20,000 28,000 Up *
— New construction starts (%) 63% 53% 60% 48% 49% * * Down *
— Preservation starts (%) 37% 48% 40% 53% 51% * * Up *
— Rental starts (%) 94% 96% 92% 92% 94% * * Neutral *
— Homeownership starts (%) 6% 4% 8% 8% 6% * * Up *
 Total affordable housing completions (units) 23,744 25,685 25,450 22,418 26,971 18,500 23,500 Neutral *
— New construction completions (%) 42% 37% 51% 56% 69% * * Up *
— Preservation completions (%) 58% 63% 49% 44% 31% * * Down *
— Rental completions (%) 66% 67% 82% 87% 99% * * Up *
— Homeownership completions (%) 34% 33% 18% 13% 1% * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Increase the quantity of affordable housing in areas of New York City where housing will create the 
greatest benefit for its residents.
New Yorkers should have meaningful choice in the housing market and the opportunity to choose the neighborhood that 
best meets their individual and household needs. In Fiscal 2026, HPD constructed 8 percent of its new housing units in 
limited affordability areas (LAAs, neighborhoods with the fewest low-cost housing options), an eight percentage-point 
decrease from the prior year. As part of Block by Block, HPD will ensure that HPD is prioritizing building new housing in 
neighborhoods that lack low-cost options, including LAAs. In its preservation portfolio, HPD increased the number of units 
in LAAs; in Fiscal 2026, 16 percent of HPD’s preservation units were in LAAs, an 11 percentage-point increase compared to 
last year. Together, these efforts demonstrate HPD’s dedication to building and preserving housing in areas where affordable 
housing is particularly scarce. 
In Fiscal 2026, HPD supported the creation of over 14,300 unrestricted housing units, a nine percent increase from the 
prior year. Unrestricted housing units are market rate units in mixed-income developments in which HPD provided support 
for the affordable portion. These non-income-restricted units play a key role in expanding the City’s housing supply.
HPD also provided stabilization assistance, including direct subsidies, tax benefits, or other financial assistance, to buildings 
with more than 17,300 existing housing units, a 72 percent increase driven in part by increased participation in the J-51 
program. (J-51 is an as-of-right tax exemption and abatement for residential rehabilitation; J-51 had lapsed by State law 
and then returned to accepting applications.) This investment demonstrates HPD’s commitment to preserving and improving 
the City’s housing stock for current and future residents.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 New construction in limited affordability areas (%) 8% 6% 11% 16% 8% * * Up *
 Preservation in limited affordability areas (%) 4% 9% 2% 5% 16% * * Up *
Additional housing starts (unrestricted units) NA 13,364 13,928 13,136 14,304 * * NA *
Stabilization housing assistance starts (units) NA 16,244 12,789 10,125 17,366 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 414>>>
Page 402  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2c Increase the quantity of affordable housing for low-income and senior households.
Through the production of affordable housing, HPD aims to address the lack of affordable housing options for low-income 
individuals and families. In Fiscal 2026, HPD designated 85 percent of all housing starts for extremely low-income, very low-
income, and low-income households earning less than 80 percent of the Area Median Income (AMI), or up to $108,560 
for a family of two. In Fiscal 2026, 29 percent of all housing starts were designated for extremely low-income households, 
defined as those earning up to $40,710 for a family of two (a 10 percentage-point increase from the previous year) and 27 
percent of all housing starts were for very low-income households, defined as those earning between $40,711 and $67,850 
for a family of two (a nine percentage-point increase from the previous year). Senior unit completions grew 49 percent 
to 1,884, reflecting higher Fiscal 2023 and 2024 senior units started. HPD continues to prioritize and commit additional 
resources to serve the most vulnerable households including extremely low-income, very low-income, and senior households. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Extremely low income (0-30% Area Median Income) starts (%) 22% 22% 20% 19% 29% * * Up *
 Very low income (31-50% Area Median Income) starts (%) 19% 22% 22% 18% 27% * * Up *
Low income (51-80% Area Median Income) starts (%) 30% 30% 25% 32% 29% * * Neutral *
Extremely low income (0-30% Area Median Income) completions 
(%) 17% 14% 17% 17% 21% * * Up *
Very low income (31-50% Area Median Income) completions (%) 36% 33% 28% 24% 16% * * Down *
Low income (51-80% Area Median Income) completions (%) 26% 32% 29% 28% 28% * * Neutral *
Units started that serve senior households 1,051 1,842 2,875 1,904 1,951 * * Up *
Units completed that serve senior households 1,291 1,660 2,944 1,262 1,884 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2d Maintain the physical and financial stability of HPD’s affordable housing assets. 
The Division of Asset Management is responsible for ensuring the longevity and affordability of units the Agency has created 
and preserved. In Fiscal 2026, the number of rental projects in HPD’s asset management portfolio remained the same at 
approximately 2,400 projects. The number of co-op projects in the Agency’s portfolio also remained steady when compared 
to last year. Further housing production is expected to lead to resumed growth of the asset management portfolio over 
the next few years. 
The division tracks information on the physical and financial condition of properties, monitors compliance with regulatory 
requirements, and proactively identifies at-risk buildings and portfolios to stabilize struggling assets. In Fiscal 2026, 16 
percent of rental projects and 34 percent of co-op projects in the Asset Management portfolio were considered high risk 
of physical deterioration, financial distress, or noncompliance with federal requirements (approximately the same as in 
Fiscal 2025). However, the composition of the high-, medium-, and low-risk categories changed throughout the year as 
individual projects’ conditions improved or deteriorated. Tracking these changes over time allows staff to distinguish projects 
experiencing temporary or isolated issues from those that remain at elevated risk and may require sustained intervention.
Staff used these risk metrics to prioritize outreach and intervention efforts in collaboration with owners, partners and 
multiple divisions of HPD. Through interventions such as financial assistance, management changes, and ownership changes, 
the Agency works to proactively identify and address at-risk projects before physical or financial distress escalates.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Asset management — Rental projects in portfolio 1,758 1,868 2,090 2,454 2,455 * * Up *
 Asset management — High risk rental projects in portfolio (%) 9% 12% 14% 16% 16% ò ò Up Down
Asset management — Co-op projects in portfolio 1,022 1,034 1,036 1,038 1,041 * * Neutral *
Asset management — High risk co-op projects in portfolio (%) 27% 28% 28% 32% 34% * * Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 415>>>
HOUSING PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 403
SERVICE 3 Efficiently offer New Yorkers housing-related subsidies and support.
Goal 3a Connect New Yorkers to affordable housing.
Beyond developing and financing housing, HPD helps connect New Yorkers to housing as efficiently as possible. In line 
with the commitments in Block by Block and Streamlining Procedures to Expedite Equitable Development (SPEED), HPD 
is streamlining access to affordable housing and reducing administrative burden for housing-seekers. HPD is working to 
increase the speed and ease with which housing applicants become connected to affordable homes through a fair, equal-
opportunity lottery process. 
For affordable housing units distributed through the housing lottery, marketing agents review and determine applicant 
eligibility, and HPD or the New York City Housing Development Corporation (HDC) signs off on an approval for move 
in. In Fiscal 2026, HPD and HDC approved 10,633 applicants (households) for newly constructed units through the 
affordable housing lotteries available on Housing Connect, the City’s online portal for affordable rental and homeownership 
opportunities. This eight percent increase from Fiscal 2025 occurred because a large number of units that HPD/HDC financed 
in previous years became officially ready for occupancy in 2026. 
In Fiscal 2026, the median time from unit availability to HPD/HDC approval of an applicant decreased by six days to 136 
days. However, the share of applicants approved within three months decreased by seven percentage points, and the share 
of applicants approved within six months decreased by one percentage point. The steadily decreasing median applicant 
approval time may be related to HPD’s recent tech improvements and process updates, such as audit-style eligibility review 
and a shorter appeal period. The decreasing share of applicant approvals in the two fastest categories (three and six months) 
may be associated with the fact that  a record number of units were being leased up in Fiscal 2026. 
In Fiscal 2026, the median time for HPD/HDC to complete applicant approvals for a lottery project increased by 12 percent 
to 236 days. The share of lottery projects for which HPD and HDC completed applicant approvals within three months 
decreased by nine percentage points, the share completed within six months decreased by 15 percentage points, and 
the share taking more than two years increased from 9 percent in Fiscal 2024 to 16 percent in Fiscal 2025. The longer 
timeframes for HPD/HDC approvals may be due to an increase in the average number of units per project and/or the fact 
that a record number of units were being leased up in Fiscal 2026.
HPD is committed to streamlining and expediting access to affordable housing. Further tech and process changes designed 
to support ongoing efficiency gains for lease-up staff are described in the Block by Block and SPEED reports. HPD anticipates 
that implementing these initiatives will reduce lease-up timelines for affordable housing in future fiscal years.  
The City finances the creation of homeless set-aside units each year. In addition, developers may “volunteer” other 
affordable units, not originally set aside for homeless individuals and families, into HPD’s homeless placement process. 
Department of Homeless Services (DHS) data on shelter exits complements HPD data to provide a more holistic picture of 
homeless households moving into City-financed affordable housing. In Fiscal 2026, HPD moved 3,833 homeless households 
into newly constructed units, up two percent from Fiscal 2025. This temporary shift occurred because more units were 
voluntarily made available for homeless placements. In Fiscal 2026, HPD moved 748 homeless households into re-rental 
units, down 18 percent over the same period. Re-rentals are largely driven by the number of units that become available 
because a tenant moves out. 
In Fiscal 2026, HPD’s median time to lease-up a new construction voluntary homeless placement unit was 20 percent slower 
(32 days) than in Fiscal 2025. This overall slower lease-up time reflects the increase in volume of projects and units that 
were voluntarily made available for homeless placements. 
In Fiscal 2026, the median time to lease up new construction homeless set-aside units decreased by 19 percent, to 190 
days. Leasing homeless set-aside units requires coordination across multiple City agencies and involves several eligibility, 
documentation, and approval steps. To further reduce placement times, the City is implementing more automated technology 
systems, strengthening inter-agency coordination, and making process and policy changes to reduce administrative burden. 
<<<PAGE 416>>>
Page 404  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
As the City continues to implement its goals of increasing efficient access to services and shaping government processes to 
prioritize the resident experience, HPD gathers feedback from applicants, housing-seekers, and development and marketing 
agent partners to complement its ongoing data analysis. These findings will continue to inform policy and process changes 
to expedite and streamline the process to connect New Yorkers to City-financed affordable housing.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Applicants approved for a new construction unit through 
the lottery 6,585 8,903 9,305 9,869 10,633 * * Up *
 ® Homeless households moved into a newly constructed 
unit 1,574 1,989 3,371 3,743 3,833 * * Up *
Homeless households moved into a re-rental unit 601 548 642 908 748 * * Up *
Lottery projects — Completed applicant approvals within three 
months (%) 23% 15% 18% 16% 7% * * Down *
Lottery projects — Completed applicant approvals within six 
months (%) 42% 32% 37% 41% 26% * * Down *
Lottery projects — Completed applicant approvals after two 
years (%) 26% 13% 9% 16% NA * * NA *
Lottery projects — Median time to complete applicant approv -
als (days) 171 262 202 210 236 * * Up *
Lottery units — Applicants approved within three months (%) 32% 21% 24% 32% 25% * * Neutral *
Lottery units — Applicants approved within six months (%) 51% 41% 45% 57% 56% * * Up *
Lottery units — Applicants approved after two years (%) 5% 5% 5% 6% NA * * NA *
 Lottery units — Median time to approve an applicant (days) 163 192 191 142 136 * * Down *
 Median time to lease-up a homeless placement set-aside 
new construction unit (days) 203 243 196 235 190 * * Neutral *
Median time to lease-up a homeless placement voluntary new 
construction unit (days) 214 142 156 162 194 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3b Optimize rental subsidies for low-income New Yorkers.
The Section 8 program (Housing Choice Vouchers and Project-Based Vouchers, or PBVs) provides housing stability and 
mobility for low-income households. Section 8 funds provide subsidies for low-income households, allowing them to pay 
30 percent of their income toward rent to live in housing that meets federal Housing Quality Standards. HPD maintained 
an overall Section 8 voucher utilization rate of 86 percent at the end of Fiscal 2026, consistent with Fiscal 2025 but below 
the target of 98 percent. The number of vouchers HPD issued decreased by 66 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 
2025, to 1,792. The federal Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) recaptured federal subsidy reserves 
in both Calendar 2024 and 2025, leaving HPD with vouchers but no funding, which significantly reduced the voucher 
utilization rate starting in Fiscal 2024 and has prevented the Agency from issuing new vouchers recently. In Fiscal 2025, a 
combination of existing PBV commitments, as well as a small number of already-issued vouchers, allowed HPD to maintain 
utilization despite pausing new voucher issuance. 
In Fiscal 2026, HPD reduced the median time from completed Section 8 voucher application to voucher issuance by 24 
days, to 53 days (compared to 77 last year). Similarly, HPD reduced the median time from voucher issuance to lease-up to 
71 days, down from 142 days the prior year. This change was partly due to a shift in the types of vouchers issued: in Fiscal 
2025, HPD was still able to issue Tenant-Based Vouchers for the first part of the year, while in Fiscal 2026, HPD issued PBVs 
exclusively. PBVs typically have faster processing and leasing times because eligible households are matched directly with 
available units and do not need to identify housing on their own. By contrast, Tenant-Based Voucher holders must search 
for and secure a rental unit on the private market, which adds time and complexity. 
<<<PAGE 417>>>
HOUSING PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 405
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Section 8 — Housing choice voucher utilization rate 99% 98% 89% 86% 86% 98% 98% Down Up
Section 8 — Housing choice vouchers issued 1,367 1,311 2,289 5,341 1,792 * * Up Up
Section 8 — Housing choice voucher households assisted 37,502 37,444 37,394 37,444 36,188 * * Neutral Up
 Section 8 — Median time from completed application to voucher 
issuance (days) 26 57 44 77 53 * * Up *
 Section 8 — Median time from voucher issuance to lease up 
(days) 101 99 81 142 71 * * Neutral *
Section 8 — Subsidized units in abatement (%) 6% 6% 6% 7% 7% * * Up Down
Households assisted through other programs 4,914 6,878 7,838 8,059 7,811 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3c Increase the quantity of housing for people experiencing homelessness.
HPD is committed to prioritizing the creation of affordable housing for individuals and families who are experiencing 
homelessness, including supportive housing for formerly unhoused New Yorkers who need ongoing services and support to 
remain stably housed. In Fiscal 2026, HPD created or preserved 4,742 units for formerly homeless individuals and families, 
including 2,546 supportive housing units. This represents HPD’s highest number of units on record for formerly homeless 
New Yorkers and for supportive units, reflecting a 12 percent increase and a 31 percent increase, respectively, compared 
to Fiscal 2025. In the same year, HPD completed 3,311 units for homeless households, including 1,419 supportive units, a 
14 percent and 69 percent increase, respectively, from the previous fiscal year. HPD has strategically prioritized the creation 
of homes for unhoused New Yorkers.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Units started for homeless individuals and families 2,305 3,581 4,154 4,244 4,742 * * Up *
Supportive units started 1,216 2,004 2,147 1,941 2,546 * * Up *
Units completed for homeless individuals and families 2,058 2,864 2,426 2,893 3,311 * * Up *
Supportive units completed 907 1,346 960 840 1,419 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 3d Streamline the process of securing housing (temporary, then permanent) for households displaced by 
fire or vacate orders.
The Division of Emergency Housing Services (EHS) provides emergency relocation services and rehousing assistance to 
households who have been displaced from their homes because of fires or vacate orders. In Fiscal 2026, the emergency 
shelter census, which measures the number of individuals and households who stayed at least one night in emergency 
shelters, increased across all household types compared to Fiscal 2025. The census increased by four percent for single 
adults, 23 percent for adult families, and 13 percent for families with children. The unpredictable nature of fires and vacate 
orders drive these fluctuations, which can vary significantly from year to year. The total census for Fiscal 2026 was 769 for 
single adults, 440 for adult families, and 684 for families with children. The average length of stay in shelters decreased 
across all household types, falling by 14 percent for single adults to 486 days, 18 percent for adult families to 357 days, 
and 16 percent for families with children to 268 days. The shorter average lengths of stay are in part the result of the recent 
increase in people entering EHS shelters in Fiscal 2026 as a result of recent emergency events. Recent arrivals have shorter 
shelter stays so far, which reduces the overall average. 
<<<PAGE 418>>>
Page 406  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Census for single adults 697 754 664 739 769 * * Neutral *
Census for adult families 268 298 314 357 440 * * Up *
Census for families with children 389 456 486 607 684 * * Up *
Average length of stay — Single adults (days) 673 617 573 564 486 * * Down *
Average length of stay — Adult families (days) 421 462 447 436 357 * * Down *
Average length of stay — Families with children (days) 350 340 283 318 268 * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 4 Provide opportunities for New Yorkers to achieve economic advancement through housing-
related workforce opportunities.
Goal 4a Promote M/WBE participation in HPD subsidized affordable housing. 
HPD is committed to expanding opportunities for Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises (M/WBEs) in the 
development of affordable housing through its M/WBE Build Up program. Under the program, developers receiving HPD or 
HDC financing of $2 million or more are required to allocate at least 25 percent of applicable project costs to M/WBE firms, 
helping ensure that the economic benefits of affordable housing development are shared more equitably. In Fiscal 2026, 
75 percent of financed affordable housing projects were subject to the M/WBE Build Up program, a nine percentage-point 
decrease from Fiscal 2025. However, these projects are expected to award more than $359 million to M/WBE contractors, a 
nine percent increase from Fiscal 2025, which is driven by total development costs associated with housing production. All 
completed affordable housing projects continued to meet or exceed their M/WBE Build Up goals. However, the total dollar 
amount awarded to M/WBE contractors for completed projects declined by 50 percent to approximately $123 million. This 
decrease reflects fewer M/WBE Build Up project closeouts in Fiscal 2026 relative to Fiscal 2025. Fiscal 2024 and 2025 were 
outliers, with an unusually high number of Build Up project closeouts, driven in part by COVID-related delays that extended 
project timelines and resulted in a concentration of project closeouts in Fiscal 2024 and 2025. Since the inception of the 
program, 276 projects with approximately 100,000 units have been subject to the M/WBE buildup program with M/WBE 
utilization totaling almost $3 billion.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Financed affordable housing projects 
with an M/WBE Build Up goal (%) 75% 75% 86% 84% 75% * * Neutral *
Total dollar amount expected to be 
awarded to M/WBE contractors for 
financed affordable housing projects 
through the Build Up program ($) $142,872,610 $240,458,397 $328,206,342 $328,412,938 $359,144,559 * * Up *
 Completed affordable housing proj -
ects that met or exceeded their M/WBE 
Build Up goal (%) 100% 86% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral *
Total dollar amount awarded to M/WBE 
contractors for completed affordable 
housing projects through the Build Up 
program ($) $146,090,650 $130,734,287 $454,898,226 $249,061,610 $123,480,530 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 419>>>
HOUSING PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 407
Goal 4b Support wage growth and workforce growth in New York City through housing-related City contracting.  
City investment in the preservation and new construction of affordable housing drives economic growth and creates jobs. 
In Fiscal 2026, the City invested $2.5 billion in subsidies through HPD affordable housing programs, a 21 percent increase 
from Fiscal 2025. This significant increase helped drive a 75 percent increase in temporary construction jobs, from 23,297 
in Fiscal 2025 to 40,847 in Fiscal 2026. The number of permanent jobs in residential employment (which includes jobs 
in operations of new residential, commercial, or community spaces) associated with housing production in Fiscal 2026 
decreased minimally, down nine percent, from 700 to 638. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total direct city subsidy investment $927,093,643 $1,600,051,239 $1,989,072,193 $2,099,566,065 $2,539,342,229 * * Up *
Employment impacts — Temporary 
jobs associated with housing produc -
tion 25,420 33,194 37,834 23,297 40,847 * * Up *
Employment impacts — Permanent 
jobs associated with housing produc -
tion 519 629 713 700 638 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Human services contracts NA NA NA 8 NA * * NA *
Human services contract registration within 30 days of the contract 
start date (%) NA NA NA 25% NA * * NA Up
Total dollars disbursed for human services contracts ($000,000) NA NA NA $215.35 NA * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 40% 28% 23% 25% 42% 58% 58% Neutral Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 42% 9% 29% 30% 28% 52% 52% Neutral Up
Average customer in-person wait time (minutes) 13 13 21 24 21 29 29 Up Down
Visitors to the Division of Tenant and Owner Resources (DTOR) rat -
ing customer service as good or better (%) NA NA 100% 96% 80% 95% 95% NA Up
Completed requests for interpretation NA 127 182 195 319 * * NA *
CORE facility rating NA 94 97 98 97 85 85 NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Percent meeting time to close - Heating (5 days) 91% 94% 99% 99% 97% 90% 90% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to close - Pests (30 days) 59% 59% 61% 66% 58% 60% 60% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to close - Paint/Plaster - Ceiling (17 days) 78% 77% 78% 80% 77% 70% 70% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to close - Paint/Plaster - Walls (17 days) 62% 64% 67% 70% 64% 69% 69% Neutral *
Percent meeting time to close - Plumbing - Water-Leaks (17 days) 62% 60% 62% 66% 60% 68% 68% Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 420>>>
Page 408  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $1,194.4 $1,324.1 $1,871.8 $1,978.5 $2,041.8 $2,023.1 $1,843.8 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $94.7 $92.3 $110.1 $123.8 $160.5 $96.9 $39.4 Up
Personnel 2,251 2,410 2,433 2,424 2,498 2,891 2,915 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $3.4 $3.8 $3.7 $4.1 $4.3 $4.3 $4.3 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $915.7 $1,410.9 $2,400.4 $2,742.8 $3,129.4 $5,930.3 $4,930.4 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.)
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $216.0 $240.9 
        001 - Office of Administration $56.8 $62.5 All
        002 - Office of Development $34.3 $40.8 2a, 3a, 4a, 4b
        003 - Rental Subsidy Program $24.5 $27.8 2a, 4a
        004 - Office of Housing Preservation $76.7 $82.9 1a, 1b 
        006 - Housing Maintenance and Sales $23.7 $26.9 2a, 3a, 4b
Other Than Personal Services - Total $1,762.5 $1,800.9 
        008 - Office of Administration $14.4 $18.3 All
        009 - Office of Development $58.1 $94.4 1b, 2a, 4a, 4b
        010 - Housing Management and Sales $68.6 $11.7 1a, 1b, 2a, 3a, 4b
        011 - Office of Housing Preservation $72.6 $69.2 1a, 1b, 4b
        012 - City Assistance to NYC Housing $435.1 $516.6 All
        013 - Rental Subsidy Program $791.1 $934.5 2a, 4a
 014 - Emergency Shelter Operations $322.7 $156.1 1b
Agency Total $1,978.5 $2,041.8 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter. 
<<<PAGE 421>>>
HOUSING PRESERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT  |  Page 409
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS 
• Dina Levy was appointed HPD Commissioner on February 1, 2026.
• In Goal 1a, figures for some indicators were changed to reflect finalized data. These were ‘Inspection visits per team 
per day’ from 12.6 to 9.4 for Fiscal 2022, and ‘Ratio of completed inspections to attempted inspections’ from 82% to 
81% for Fiscal 2022 and from 82% to 83% for Fiscal 2024.
• The indicator ‘Violations issued and removed in the same fiscal year’ under Goal 1b was retired as it no longer reflects 
the way HPD measures enforcement impacts. 
• In Goal 2a, figures for some indicators were changed to reflect finalized data. These were: for ‘Total affordable housing 
starts (units)’ from 17,022 to 17,461 for Fiscal 2022, from 24,689 to 25,453 for Fiscal 2023, from 25,552 to 26,457 
for Fiscal 2024, and from 28,281 to 28,852 for Fiscal 2025; for ‘New construction starts (%)’ from 62% to 63% for 
Fiscal 2022, from 52% to 53% for Fiscal 2023, from 59% to 60% for Fiscal 2024, and from 47% to 48% for Fiscal 
2025; for ‘Preservation starts (%)’ from 38% to 37% for Fiscal 2022, and from 41% to 40% for Fiscal 2024, ; for ‘Total 
affordable housing completions (units)’ from 23,190 to 23,744 for Fiscal 2022, from 24,678 to 25,685 for Fiscal 2023, 
from 25,558 to 25,450 for Fiscal 2024, and from 20,975 to 22,418 for Fiscal 2025; for ‘Preservation completions’ from 
61% to 63% for Fiscal 2023, from 48% to 49% for Fiscal 2024, and from 41% to 44% for Fiscal 2025; for ‘Rental 
completions’ from 65% to 67% for Fiscal 2023 and from 86% to 87% for Fiscal 2025; and for ‘Homeownership 
completions’ from 35% to 33% for Fiscal 2023 and from 14% to 13% for Fiscal 2025.
• In Goal 2b, figures for some indicators were changed to reflect finalized data. ‘New construction in limited affordability 
areas’ was updated from 7% to 8% for Fiscal 2022; ‘Preservation in limited affordability areas’ was updated from 6% 
to 5% for Fiscal 2025; ‘Additional housing starts (unrestricted units)’ was updated from 13,193 to 13,364 for Fiscal 
2023, from 14,516 to 13,928 for Fiscal 2024, and from 13,593 to 13,136 for Fiscal 2025; and ‘Stabilization housing 
assistance starts (units)’ was updated from 15,060 to 16,244 for Fiscal 2023, from 12,566 to 12,789 for Fiscal 2024, 
and from 8,650 to 10,125 for Fiscal 2025.
• In Goal 2c, figures for some indicators were changed to reflect finalized data. These were: ‘Extremely low income 
(0–30% Area Median Income) starts (%)’ from 23% to 22% for Fiscal 2023, from 21% to 20% for Fiscal 2024, and 
from 20% to 19% for Fiscal 2025; ‘Very low income (31–50% Area Median Income) starts (%)’ from 20% to 19% for 
Fiscal 2022 and from 24% to 22% for Fiscal 2024; ‘Low income (51–80% Area Median Income) starts (%)’ from 31% 
to 30% for Fiscal 2023, from 26% to 25% for Fiscal 2024, and ‘Extremely low income (0–30% Area Median Income) 
completions (%)’ from 15% to 14% for Fiscal 2023, from 19% to 17% for Fiscal 2024, and from 16% to 17% for 
Fiscal 2025; ‘Very low income (31–50% Area Median Income) completions’ from 25% to 24% for Fiscal 2025; ‘Low 
income (51–80% Area Median Income) completions (%)’ from 31% to 32% for Fiscal 2023 and from 28% to 29% 
for Fiscal 2024; and ‘Units completed that serve senior households’ from 1,290 to 1,291 for Fiscal 2022, from 1,631 to 
1,660 for Fiscal 2023, from 2,906 to 2,944 for Fiscal 2024, and from 950 to 1,262 for Fiscal 2025. 
• In Goal 3a, figures for two indicators were added as data became available. These were: ‘Lottery projects—Completed 
applicant approvals after two years (%)’ from NA to 16% for Fiscal 2025, and ‘Lottery units—Applicants approved after 
two years (%)’ from NA to 6% for Fiscal 2025.
• In Goal 3b, figures for two indicators were changed to reflect finalized data for Fiscal 2025. These were ‘Section 
8—Housing choice vouchers issued’ from 2,126 to 5,341, and for ‘Section 8—Housing choice voucher households 
assisted’ from 36,263 to 37,444.
• In Goal 3c, figures for some indicators were changed to reflect finalized data. These were: ‘Units started for homeless 
individuals and families’ from 4,126 to 4,154 for Fiscal 2024 and from 4,178 to 4,244 for Fiscal 2025; ‘Supportive units 
started’ from 1,962 to 1,941 for Fiscal 2025; ‘Units completed for homeless individuals and families’ from 2,794 to 
2,864 for Fiscal 2023, from 2,377 to 2,426 for Fiscal 2024, and from 2,324 to 2,893 for Fiscal 2025; and ‘Supportive 
units completed’ from 886 to 960 for Fiscal 2024 and from 738 to 840 for Fiscal 2025.
<<<PAGE 422>>>
Page 410  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
• In Goal 4b, figures for some indicators were changed to reflect finalized data. These were: ‘Total direct city subsidy 
investment’ from $927,004,191 to $927,093,643 for Fiscal 2022, from $1,580,501,114 to $1,600,051,239 for Fiscal 
2023, from $1,988,701,575 to $1,989,072,193 for Fiscal 2024, and from $2,067,625,413 to $2,099,566,065 for 
Fiscal 2025; ‘Employment impacts—Temporary jobs associated with housing production’ from 23,412 to 23,297 for 
Fiscal 2025; and for ‘Employment impacts—Permanent jobs associated with housing production’ from 674 to 700 for 
Fiscal 2025. 
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information on items referenced in the narrative, go to:
• Block by Block: The Housing Plan for a New Era:  
nyc.gov/content/dam/nycgov/nyc-main/pdf/2026/block-by-block-report.pdf
• Rental Ripoff Report:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/tenantprotection/downloads/pdf/rental-ripoffs-hearing-report-072026.pdf
• Streamlining Procedures to Expedite Equitable Development (SPEED) Report: 
https://www.nyc.gov/content/dam/nycgov/nyc-main/pdf/2026/speed_report_051326.pdf
• Where We Live:  
wherewelive.cityofnewyork.us/
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
• The Mayor’s Office of Contract Services’ Citywide Indicators Report:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/mocs/resources/citywide-indicator-reports.page
For more information on the Agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/hpd.
<<<PAGE 423>>>
NEW YORK CITY HOUSING 
AUTHORITY Lisa Bova-Hiatt, Chief Executive Officer
NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY  |  Page 411
WHAT WE DO
The New York City Housing Authority 
(NYCHA), also referred to as the 
Authority, provides affordable housing 
to 497,649 authorized residents 
in 177,565 apartments within 335 
housing developments and units leased 
through the Section 8 program. NYCHA 
serves 275,546 authorized residents in 
145,347 apartments within 216 housing 
developments through the conventional 
public housing program (Section 9) and 
56,164 authorized residents in 32,218 
units within 119 developments that were 
converted to the Permanent Affordability 
Commitment Together (PACT) program. 
Through federal rent subsidies (Section 
8 Leased Housing Program), NYCHA 
also provides rental subsidies to 82,970 
families in locating and renting units in 
the private market.
NYCHA, which was established in 1934, 
is pursuing innovative ways to generate 
the funding its properties desperately 
need. Its buildings, the majority of which 
are more than a half century old, need 
$78 billion in investments to be brought 
into a state of good repair, the result of 
decades of government disinvestment. 
In addition to an over $5 billion capital 
projects portfolio, through PACT, the New 
York City Public Housing Preservation 
Trust (the Trust), and Comprehensive 
Modernization (the Authority’s large-
scale renovation program of its public 
housing developments), NYCHA is 
undertaking comprehensive renovations 
to dramatically improve residents’ quality 
of life while preserving resident rights 
and protections and providing economic 
opportunities. Through its Transformation 
Plan, NYCHA is strengthening as an 
organization and fundamentally changing 
how it operates. And through compliance 
with the 2019 federal Department of 
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) 
Agreement, NYCHA is improving how it 
delivers services to residents in key areas, 
including heat and elevator services, lead, 
mold, and pest/waste management.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
NYCHA promotes equity through its mission to provide quality housing for 
low-income New Yorkers that is sustainable, inclusive, and safe, while fostering 
opportunities for economic mobility for its residents. NYCHA develops programs, 
policies, and partnerships to support residents with employment, training, 
education, and health. 
In Fiscal 2026, NYCHA engaged 76,522 residents in the design and implementation 
of key initiatives, including planning for PACT conversions and the Trust. NYCHA 
completed 61 resident association leadership elections during Fiscal 2026, all of 
which required extensive engagement of residents. Resident engagement is central 
to NYCHA’s efforts to deliver better services, reorganize in order to meet residents’ 
needs, and bring NYCHA buildings the capital investment they need to support 
the generations of New Yorkers to come. 
NYCHA continues to facilitate an engagement plan for planning the future of the 
Trust. Over 3,200 residents live at properties that will be converted to the Trust. As 
part of the Trust’s Modernization and Preservation (Trust Mod) program, the Trust 
has engaged residents through visioning sessions to understand their priorities for 
building repairs and provided opportunities for resident members to participate in 
the evaluation process for selecting the Design-Builders responsible for managing 
the relocation. The Trust has also held meetings to keep residents informed about 
the Section 8 conversion, the Design-Build process, and lease signings. In addition, 
once a Design-Build team is onboard, the Design-Build team works directly with 
residents through design workshops, meetings, surveys, and other activities to 
refine project design, gather feedback, and provide project progress. 
As of July 2026, the Trust has four developments with 1,776 units in its pipeline at 
various project stages. Over the past year, the Trust selected Design-Build partners 
for Bronx River Addition, Nostrand Houses, Unity Towers, and Hylan Houses. 
Following procurement, the Design-Build teams at Bronx River Addition and 
Nostrand Houses partnered with residents through design workshops, resident 
meetings, model unit tours, apartment finish selections, and Construction 
Council meetings to refine project designs and prepare for construction. The 
Trust also supported lease signings at Bronx River Addition and Nostrand Houses 
as part of the transition to the Section 8 funding platform and conducted the 
public comment period on the draft Trust leases for Unity Towers and Hylan 
Houses. At Hylan Houses, the Trust established a Resident Review and Advisory 
Committee (RRAC) to partner with the Design-Build team throughout project 
planning and design.
<<<PAGE 424>>>
Page 412  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Operate as an efficient and effective landlord.
Goal 1a Improve rent collection.
Goal 1b Expedite maintenance and repairs.
Goal 1c Optimize apartment usage and ensure rental equity.
Goal 1d Improve safety and security.
SERVICE 2 (Re)build, expand, and preserve public housing and affordable housing stock. 
Goal 2a Preserve the public and affordable housing asset.
Goal 2b Optimize access to affordable housing in public housing developments to income-eligible families.
Goal 2c Increase access to affordable housing in privately owned units.
SERVICE 3 Engage residents and connect them to best-in-class social services.
Goal 3a Connect all residents to critical services in their communities.
Goal 3b Increase employment opportunities for NYCHA residents.
<<<PAGE 425>>>
NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY  |  Page 413
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Operate as an efficient and effective landlord.
Goal 1a Improve rent collection.
NYCHA’s rent collection efforts have been severely impacted by the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, which left many 
NYCHA residents struggling to pay their arrears. The Emergency Rental Assistance Program (ERAP), the NYS Funded 
COVID-19 Rental Assistance Program (CRA), and the federally funded HOME American Rescue Plan Program (HOME-ARP) 
brought relief to some residents, but have now had their funding exhausted, and many challenges continue to hamper 
NYCHA’s rent collection efforts. As of June 2026, cumulative rent collection dropped nine percentage points from 68.6 
percent in Fiscal 2025 to 59.8 percent in Fiscal 2026. NYCHA did not meet the target of 97.5 percent. However, the 
cumulative 12-month rent collection percentage excluding arrears and rental assistance was 84 percent as of June 2026. 
Rent delinquency increased two percentage points from 44.3 percent to 46.0 percent. There were 61,970 households in 
rent arrears during the reporting period, a slight drop compared to last year (62,144). In addition to an awareness campaign 
aimed at residents about how and why to pay rent and access assistance such as payment plans, NYCHA continues to 
monitor the rent collection trends through monthly rent collection meetings, which bring departments from across the 
Authority together to review performance and identify areas for improvement.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Rent collection (%) 66.8% 62.2% 69.2% 68.6% 59.8% 97.5% 97.5% Neutral Up
Rent delinquency rate (%) 44.5% 45.3% 44.2% 44.3% 46.0% * * Neutral Down
Households in rent arrears 68,459 68,609 64,711 62,144 61,970 * * Down Down
Rent collection without arrears (%) NA NA NA NA 84% * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Expedite maintenance and repairs. 
NYCHA continued to show an overall positive trend in its repair metrics. The average time to resolve emergency repair 
requests remained steady at 16 hours and 57 minutes in Fiscal 2026 compared to 17 hours 1 minute in Fiscal 2025 and 
remained below the 24-hour target. The average time to resolve non-emergency repair requests decreased by four percent 
from 66.0 days in Fiscal 2025 to 63.3 days in Fiscal 2026. The percent of non-emergency repair requests resolved within 15 
days remained steady at 76 percent and exceeded the target of 75 percent. The percent of non-emergency repair requests 
resolved within 60 days also held steady at 86 percent in Fiscal 2026 compared to 85 percent in Fiscal 2025.
The average days to complete maintenance work orders dropped by two percent from 4.06 days in Fiscal 2025 to 3.98 
days in Fiscal 2026 and was below the target of seven days. The average days to complete skilled trades and vendor work 
orders dropped by eight percent from 129.65 days in Fiscal 2025 to 119.14 days in Fiscal 2026. While still facing incredible 
challenges with the aging infrastructure and staggering capital needs, NYCHA has continued to improve repair times 
through stronger coordination and sequencing of work orders with Neighborhood Planners and Skilled Trade Teams. This 
includes better planning and scheduling, improved communication with residents, increased worker accountability and 
productivity, systems enhancement, and better data tools to increase transparency and facilitate performance monitoring. 
Most notably, NYCHA has placed greater emphasis on reducing missed appointments for skilled trades by collaborating 
with its Federal Monitor on a new dashboard system that enables detailed insight into each skilled trade appointment 
and has allowed NYCHA to reduce the rate of missed appointments. (The Federal Monitor was established pursuant to a 
2019 agreement with the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to enforce standards for NYCHA 
apartments.) NYCHA also regularly holds detailed reviews with its Neighborhood Planners and Skilled Trade Supervisors to 
improve their overall performance and remove bottlenecks from their workstreams. 
Heat outage figures are reported for the heating season, which began on October 1, 2025, and ended on May 31, 2026. 
The average time to resolve heat outages increased by five percent from 6 hours 50 minutes to 7 hours and 12 minutes 
but remained under the target maximum of 12 hours required in the 2019 HUD Agreement, and 17 hours less than the 
24-hour requirement for New York City’s private landlords. New York City experienced a much colder winter season than in 
recent years, which increased the number of outages and impacted the resolution time. During this heating season, NYCHA 
continued to use a dedicated heating team to resolve service interruptions 24/7 and activated the NYCHA Emergency 
Operations Center during periods of extreme cold. 
<<<PAGE 426>>>
Page 414  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
The average time to resolve elevator outages rose by 45 minutes, from 6 
hours and 3 minutes in Fiscal 2025 to 6 hours and 48 minutes in Fiscal 2026 
but remained below the 10-hour target. The overall duration was primarily 
impacted by the higher number of low voltage elevator outages. These were 
precipitated by voltage reductions imposed in certain areas by Con Edison 
during heat waves. NYCHA resolved 90.39 percent of elevator outages 
within 10 hours, exceeding the target of 85 percent. NYCHA’s buildings 
experienced four percent fewer average outages of elevators per month 
in Fiscal 2026 (0.67) compared to Fiscal 2025 (0.70). The elevator service 
uptime was 99.4 percent in Fiscal 2026, exceeding the target of 97 percent 
and consistent with Fiscal 2025. NYCHA’s Elevator Department continues 
to use the 90-Minute Report, which prioritizes difficult elevator repairs for 
supervisor or specialized assistance to cut down on outage time and to track 
progress on repairs. There was one fewer alleged elevator injury in Fiscal 
2026 (10) compared to Fiscal 2025 (11). No elevator-related fatalities were 
reported. NYCHA offers ongoing training and safety communication to 
field staff and residents to help reduce these occurrences. NYCHA’s Elevator 
Department also works with NYCHA’s Environmental Health and Safety 
Department and Compliance Department to identify and resolve hazards 
and potential safety risks.
NYCHA continues to make significant progress towards compliance with the 
2019 HUD Agreement, especially in the areas of pests and mold. NYCHA 
continues to make systems enhancements and diligently use analytical tools 
to closely monitor performance and identify areas needing attention. NYCHA 
continues to work with its Federal Monitor to improve its compliance with 
these requirements. The HUD Agreement commits NYCHA to invest in capital 
upgrades for its outdated pest and waste management infrastructure. These 
efforts have included the installation of new rat slabs that help to prevent mice 
and rats from entering crawl spaces, containers, and recycling infrastructure. 
In Fiscal 2026, the percentage of rat complaints responded to within two 
business days was 90.8 percent, up slightly from 90.1 percent in Fiscal 2025. 
The percentage of rat complaints responded to within five days increased by 
two percentage points from 93.3 percent to 95.4 percent. 
For other pests (bedbugs, mice, and roaches), the continued focus on 
thoroughness of response and on identifying the root cause of infestations has also led to faster response times. NYCHA 
made reporting enhancements to better query the resident complaint data and improve monitoring. NYCHA also holds 
daily close-of-business meetings with all Borough Exterminator Supervisors to review scheduled work orders that are 
pending a response and continues the mentorship program within the Pest Control Department to facilitate cross-training 
and uniformity in processes. NYCHA also periodically shifts exterminators’ schedules to divert resources as needed. In Fiscal 
2026, the percentage of complaints from other pests responded to within seven days increased by 14 percentage points, 
from 76.2 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 90.0 percent in Fiscal 2026. Similarly, the percentage of other pest complaints responded 
to within 10 days increased by six percentage points, from 92.1 percent to 98.3 percent, less than two percentage points 
shy of achieving full compliance with the HUD Agreement at 100 percent. NYCHA will continue to focus on these areas 
to ensure a timely response. 
NYCHA is moving closer to meeting its HUD Agreement goals using dashboards and analytics tools (such as the Mold and 
Leak Scorecard) to identify high-need areas and by deploying operational resources (such as specialized teams through its 
Mold and Leaks Restore and Renew Program) to expedite mold inspections, mold removal and associated skilled trade repairs. 
Although NYCHA has significantly improved its mold inspection and remediation process and response times, more progress 
is needed to meet HUD Agreement targets. Specifically, the percentage of mold removed within five business days improved 
by 16 percentage points, from 11.5 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 27.0 percent in Fiscal 2026. Simple mold cases completed within 
seven days improved significantly by 32 percentage points, from 28.0 percent to 59.5 percent. NYCHA also improved its 
handling of complex mold cases. The percentage of complex mold cases resolved within 15 days increased from 7.6 percent 
Elevator OutagesEmergency Service 
Requests
FY 26
FY 25
FY 24
FY 23
FY 22
Average Time to Resolve Emergency Service 
Requests and Elevator Outages (hours:minutes)
6:03
17:01
6:48
11:49
20:43
6:44
21:57
9:07
27:49
16:57
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Average Time to Resolve 
Non-Emergency Service Requests (days)
49.1
65.4 65.7 66.0 63.3
<<<PAGE 427>>>
NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY  |  Page 415
in Fiscal 2025 to 16.6 percent in Fiscal 2026. These complex cases involve multiple skilled trade visits to address mold’s root 
cause and perform restoration and cosmetic repairs. Mold issues are exacerbated by aging buildings and growing capital 
needs. The percentage of mold cases without recurrence declined from 87.9 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 85.2 percent in Fiscal 
2026 but still exceeds the compliance target of 85 percent. The improved performance in mold removal and associated repairs 
is due to NYCHA Operations’ prioritization of mold work Authority-wide, as well as to NYCHA’s Mold and Leaks Restore 
and Renew Program, launched in August 2025. NYCHA’s targeted mold and leak work order backlog reduction initiatives 
have improved NYCHA’s compliance with HUD Agreement goals. Also aiding compliance is the Operations Daily Summary 
Dashboard, created in January 2025, which NYCHA Operations uses to quickly identify and address aging mold inspections 
and work orders. NYCHA will continue to work diligently towards meeting the HUD Agreement goals. 
In Fiscal 2026, NYCHA substantially increased its lead abatement efforts, completing work in 6,063 units, which was 15 
percent more units compared to Fiscal 2025 (5,295) and exceeded the annual target of 3,000. NYCHA plans to sustain 
this level of activity in the upcoming fiscal year to continue advancing the program’s objectives and to ensure that NYCHA 
meets the lead abatement goals outlined in the HUD Agreement.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average time to resolve emergency service requests 
(hours:minutes) 21:57 27:49 20:43 17:01 16:57 24:00 24:00 Down Down
 Average time to resolve non-emergency service requests (days) 49.1 65.4 65.7 66.0 63.3 ò ò Up Down
Non-emergency service requests resolved within 15 days (%) 74% 71% 75% 77% 76% 75% 75% Neutral Up
Non-emergency service requests resolved within 60 days (%) 85% 82% 85% 85% 86% 100% 100% Neutral Up
Average time to complete maintenance work orders (days) 8.10 6.23 5.03 4.06 3.98 7.00 7.00 Down Down
Average time to complete skilled trades and vendor work orders 
(days) 77.40 109.04 133.37 129.65 119.14 * * Up Down
 Average time to resolve heat outages (hours:minutes) 8:16 7:30 6:37 6:50 7:12 12:00 12:00 Down Down
 Average time to resolve elevator outages (hours:minutes) 11:49 9:07 6:44 6:03 6:48 10:00 10:00 Down Down
 Elevator outages resolved within 10 hours (%) 71.80% 77.78% 87.12% 89.65% 90.39% 85.00% 85.00% Up Up
 Average outage per elevator per month 1.07 0.93 0.78 0.70 0.67 1.01 1.01 Down Down
 Elevator service uptime (%) 97.8% 98.0% 99.3% 99.4% 99.4% 97.0% 97.0% Neutral Up
 Alleged elevator injuries reported to the Department of Buildings 6 6 1 11 10 ò ò Up Down
 Elevator-related fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 ò ò Neutral Down
 Rat complaints responded within 2 business days (%) 44.2% 40.7% 73.6% 90.1% 90.8% 90.0% 90.0% Up Up
 Rat complaints responded within 5 days (%) 52.7% 53.0% 80.2% 93.3% 95.4% 100.0% 100.0% Up Up
 Other pest complaints responded within 7 days (%) 30.0% 17.9% 32.4% 76.2% 90.0% 90.0% 90.0% Up Up
 Other pest complaints responded within 10 days (%) 35.5% 26.4% 52.4% 92.1% 98.3% 100.0% 100.0% Up Up
 Mold removed within 5 business days (%) 2.9% 6.6% 9.2% 11.5% 27.0% 95.0% 95.0% Up Up
Simple mold repairs completed within 7 days (%) 17.9% 28.1% 30.2% 28.0% 59.5% 95.0% 95.0% Up Up
 Complex mold repairs completed within 15 days (%) 2.1% 3.6% 3.7% 7.6% 16.6% 95.0% 95.0% Up Up
 Mold cases without recurrence (%) 87.9% 86.7% 83.6% 87.9% 85.2% 85.0% 85.0% Neutral Up
 Units abated for lead 621 3,267 5,037 5,295 6,063 3,000 3,000 Up Up
Management cost per dwelling unit per month ($) $1,197 $1,372 $1,345 $1,419 $1,493 $875 $875 Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 428>>>
Page 416  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1c Optimize apartment usage and ensure rental equity. 
The turnaround time to re-occupy apartments dropped by four percent from 371.1 days in Fiscal 2025 to 357.6 days in 
Fiscal 2026. Though the turnaround time remains above the target of 300 days, NYCHA has made significant progress 
through improved coordination between the environmental, trade, and developments teams to rehab and rent units more 
promptly and has received and used additional City funding for supplies and environmental work. There were nine percent 
more move ins in Fiscal 2026 (5,059) compared to last year (4,630). The number of vacant units with turnover in process 
in Fiscal 2026 (6,172) increased by three percent compared to Fiscal 2025 (5,986). This is primarily due to the return to the 
rent roll of units that were previously held for activities such as relocation for the comprehensive modernization projects 
at some NYCHA developments and other resident relocation efforts.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average turnaround time for vacant units (days) 160.8 370.0 424.4 371.1 357.6 300.0 300.0 Up Down
New move-ins (units) NA 2,104 3,251 4,630 5,059 * * NA *
Vacant units - turnover in process NA NA 5,087 5,986 6,172 * * NA *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1d Improve safety and security.
The felony crime rate in NYCHA developments reported by the New York City Police Department (NYPD) dropped 14 percent 
from 19.4 per 1,000 residents to 16.7. The number of major felony crimes dropped seven percent from 5,818 in Fiscal 2025 
to 5,431 in Fiscal 2026. NYCHA continues to strengthen its relationship with law enforcement agencies and takes safety 
measures such as assigning security guards to 43 senior buildings, conducting weekly homeless initiatives with the NYPD 
and the Department of Homeless Services (DHS), and running the Resident Watch as well as an anonymous tip line. The 
weekly homeless outreach initiatives with the NYPD have been expanded from one day per week to three days per week. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Major felony crime rate per 1,000 residents 17.6 17.9 19.4 19.4 16.7 * * Neutral Down
 Major felony crimes in public housing developments 5,859 6,062 6,117 5,818 5,594 ò ò Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 (Re)build, expand, and preserve public housing and affordable housing stock. 
Goal 2a Preserve the public and affordable housing asset.
The percentage of active capital projects on schedule or with minor delays increased from 75.4 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 
80.0 percent in Fiscal 2026, exceeding the target of 75 percent that was set in line with industry practice. This is a five 
percent increase in completing work within the forecasted schedule and is the result of improvements in project control 
measures implemented by NYCHA Asset & Capital Management department in late 2025.
The percentage of active capital projects in construction phase on track or with minor delays dropped from 82.1 percent 
to 77.0 percent. This represents a five percent decrease, primarily due to delays in regulatory agency signoffs, construction 
closeout activities performed after most physical work was completed, and vendor performance issues encountered during 
the construction phase. NYCHA is actively working on improvements in those areas, through regular senior coordination 
meetings with regulatory agencies, improved asset turnover coordination with property management in key areas, and 
active vendor management measures that use qualitative and quantitative assessments to evaluate vendor performance. 
<<<PAGE 429>>>
NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY  |  Page 417
The PACT program leverages public-private partnerships to complete comprehensive repairs in NYCHA developments. 
NYCHA’s goal is to convert 62,000 apartments to PACT. Through PACT, developments are included in the federal Rental 
Assistance Demonstration (RAD) program, which converts them to a more stable, federally funded program called Project-
Based Section 8. This allows NYCHA to unlock funding to complete comprehensive repairs, while also ensuring homes 
remain permanently affordable, and ensuring that residents have the same basic rights as they possess in the public housing 
program. In Fiscal 2026, through the PACT program, NYCHA preserved 18 developments consisting of 56 buildings and 
5,033 units. There were 3,906 units rehabbed in Fiscal 2026 and nearly 17,000 cumulative since the inception of the 
program. The public housing portfolio has decreased as more developments are converting to PACT. NYCHA’s conventional 
Section 9 program now consists of about 145,000 units across 216 developments and 1,802 buildings. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Active capital projects on track or with minor delays (%) NA NA 67.2% 75.4% 80.0% 75.0% 75.0% NA Up
 Active capital projects in construction phase on track or with 
minor delays (%) NA NA 85.1% 82.1% 77.0% 85.0% 85.0% NA Up
 Public Housing Portfolio — Unit Inventory (000) 162 160 156 150 145 * * Down *
Public Housing Portfolio — Buildings 2,106 2,063 1,934 1,858 1,802 * * Down *
Public Housing Portfolio — Developments 277 273 248 234 216 * * Down *
PACT Portfolio — Developments preserved 8 4 25 14 18 * * Up *
PACT Portfolio — Buildings preserved 79 43 128 76 56 * * Neutral *
PACT Portfolio — Units preserved 5,909 2,597 3,728 5,434 5,033 9,000 6,000 Up *
PACT Portfolio — Units rehabbed 2,625 0 3,039 4,191 3,906 * * Up Up
PACT Portfolio — Cumulative developments preserved 58 62 87 101 119 * * Up *
PACT Portfolio — Cumulative buildings preserved 305 348 476 552 608 * * Up *
PACT Portfolio — Cumulative units preserved 15,426 18,023 21,751 27,185 32,218 * * Up *
PACT Portfolio — Cumulative units rehabbed 5,830 5,830 8,869 13,060 16,966 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Optimize access to affordable housing in public housing developments to income-eligible families.
NYCHA’s occupancy rate remained steady at 95.1 percent in Fiscal 2026. The number of applicants placed in public 
housing increased three percent from 2,077 in Fiscal 2025 to 2,147 in Fiscal 2026 due to increased apartment turnover 
and availability. Overall, the number of homeless applicants placed in housing decreased by eight percent. Homeless 
placements in public housing increased by two percent from 1,021 to 1,045 but dropped by 17 percent from 1,097 to 908 
for Section 8, due to notification from HUD that funding would end for the Emergency Housing Voucher (EHV) program, 
a program created by federal COVID-19 pandemic response legislation, in Calendar 2026. As such, effective August 1, 
2025, NYCHA paused active outreach, including activities related to the application process, and voucher issuance for 
applicants on the general Section 8 voucher waitlist, impacting the number of homeless families placed in this housing. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Apartment attrition rate (%) 3.2% 3.0% 3.4% 4.1% 4.5% * * Up *
 Occupancy rate (%) 97.5% 96.8% 96.3% 95.5% 95.1% 99.2% 99.2% Neutral Up
Applicants placed in public housing 1,362 1,029 1,215 2,077 2,147 * * Up Up
Homeless applicants placed in housing — Total 1,842 4,425 2,635 2,118 1,953 * * Down *
– NYCHA housing 668 650 510 1,021 1,045 * * Up *
– Section 8 1,174 3,775 2,125 1,097 908 * * Down *
Working families residing in public housing (cumulative) (%) 42.8% 38.2% 38.5% 38.3% 38.4% * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 430>>>
Page 418  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2c Increase access to affordable housing in privately owned units.
As of June 2026, there were about 202,000 families on the Section 8 waiting list, an uptick of three percent compared to 
the last fiscal year. In Fiscal 2026, the maximum allowable vouchers increased by six percent from 116,671 to 123,276 due 
to PACT conversions. Funded vouchers increased eight percent from 101,943 to 109,807. The Section 8 housing assistance 
payments funding utilization rate dropped five percentage points, from 105 percent to 100 percent, due to program efforts 
to align expenses with the program’s budget authority. The number of Section 8 occupied units remained steady at about 
111,000 units. The percentage of biennial inspections and the percentage of annual Section 8 recertifications completed 
were stable at 98 percent and 99 percent, respectively. The number of applicants placed through Section 8 vouchers 
increased 19 percent, from 6,320 in Fiscal 2025 to 7,546 in Fiscal 2026, due to PACT conversions.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
® Section 8 — Families on waiting list (000) 17 16 5 197 202 * * Up Down
Section 8 — Maximum allowable vouchers 108,410 109,823 112,346 116,671 123,276 * * Up *
Section 8 — Funded vouchers 93,570 97,070 98,947 101,943 109,807 * * Up *
Section 8 — Funded vouchers occupied units (%) 99.0% 97.0% 98.0% 101.0% 100.0% 97.0% 97.0% Neutral Up
 Section 8 — Utilization rate for authorized vouchers (%) 84.0% 85.0% 85.0% 89.0% 88.0% 86.0% 86.0% Neutral Up
Section 8 — Housing Assistance Payments funding utilization rate 
(%) 100.0% 93.0% 98.0% 105.0% 100.0% * * Neutral *
 Section 8 — Occupied units 93,028 98,414 104,040 111,164 111,538 87,000 87,000 Up Up
Section 8 — Biennial inspections 85.0% 97.0% 96.0% 98.0% 98.0% * * Up Up
Section 8 — Annual recertifications 99.0% 99.0% 99.0% 99.0% 99.0% * * Neutral Up
Section 8 — Applicants placed through vouchers 6,660 2,974 6,358 6,320 7,546 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Engage residents and connect them to best-in-class social services.
Goal 3a Connect all residents to critical services in their communities.
NYCHA’s emergency transfer priority is available to NYCHA residents who are victims of domestic violence, intimidated victims, 
intimidated witnesses, or child sexual assault victims, as well as all categories defined under the Violence Against Women 
Act (VAWA). VAWA includes victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, or stalking. The emergency transfer 
priority is intended to enhance safety for at-risk residents by providing confidential relocation to another NYCHA development. 
The number of residents approved for this category of emergency transfer dropped by 17 percent, from 1,084 in Fiscal 2025 
to 901 in Fiscal 2026. The reduction in the number of approved emergency transfers is due to approximately 15 percent fewer 
overall emergency transfers requested year-over-year. The processing time for emergency transfers increased by five percent 
from 11.68 days to 12.31 days due to staff turnover but remained well below the 45-day target. 
The percentage of initial social service tenant contacts conducted within five days remained steady at 98 percent in Fiscal 2026. 
Referrals to supportive services for senior residents declined by 17 percent from 30,530 in Fiscal 2025 to 25,460 in Fiscal 2026. 
Two contributing factors were the reduction in Elderly Safe at Home sites from 14 to 12 in an effort to prevent duplicating 
services from an onsite Older Adult Center, as well as staff turnover and long-term absences. To mitigate this downward turn, 
supervisory staff were hired to provide support and guidance on increasing services. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Residents approved for emergency transfers 1,783 1,552 1,207 1,084 901 * * Down *
 Emergency transfer disposition time (days) 12.20 13.34 10.09 11.68 12.31 45.00 45.00 Neutral Down
 Initial social service tenant contacts conducted within five days 
of referral (%) 91% 92% 95% 97% 98% 76% 76% Neutral Up
Referrals to supportive social services for senior residents 34,263 38,083 39,684 30,530 25,460 * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None  
<<<PAGE 431>>>
NEW YORK CITY HOUSING AUTHORITY  |  Page 419
Goal 3b Increase employment opportunities for NYCHA residents.
Resident job placements include direct placements through NYCHA’s Office of Resident Economic Empowerment and 
Sustainability (REES) and Human Resources Department, as well as partner placements. Overall placements decreased 19 
percent from 2,361 in Fiscal 2025 to 1,915 in Fiscal 2026. 
Direct placements dropped 34 percent from 914 to 606, and the percentage of job placements to program graduates 
declined by three percentage points from 83 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 80 percent in Fiscal 2026, due in part to graduates 
of the NYCHA Resident Training Academy (NRTA) Janitorial Track experiencing longer placement times, creating a bench 
of residents awaiting placement. NRTA Janitorial cohorts graduating in the latter part of Fiscal 2026 will be placed in Fiscal 
2027. Partner placements decreased by 10 percent from 1,447 to 1,309. This is a result of a decrease of 140 placements 
reported by Jobs-Plus sites, as well as a lag in data reporting from REES partners on residents who may have completed 
programming in the current quarter. This data may not be reported by partners until future quarters.
The youth placed in jobs through youth employment programs rose 26 percent from 4,248 in Fiscal 2025 to 5,334 in 
Fiscal 2026. In addition to the youth directly hired through its seasonal program and other positions, NYCHA continues 
its collaboration with Department of Youth and Community Development and their providers on the Summer Youth 
Employment Program Career FIRST and MAP to $uccess programs.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Resident job placements — Total 1,663 2,652 2,531 2,361 1,915 ñ ñ Neutral Up
– Direct placements 1,110 1,031 854 914 606 1,593 1,593 Down Up
– Program and partner placements 553 1,621 1,677 1,447 1,309 * * Up *
– Job training graduates placed (%) 71% 84% 78% 83% 80% * * Neutral Up
– Youth placed through youth employment programs 3,516 3,630 4,325 4,248 5,334 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
The number of completed customer requests for interpretation decreased three percent from 158,052 in Fiscal 2025 to 
153,936 in Fiscal 2026. The average wait time to speak with a customer service agent dropped by 64 percent from 33 minutes 
and 8 seconds in Fiscal 2025 to 12 minutes and 2 seconds in Fiscal 2026. The introduction of a Virtual Agent as well as staff 
reassignment have reduced wait times significantly. The percentage of calls answered within 30 seconds dipped slightly from 
27.1 percent to 25.4 percent. New staff learning to navigate the system impacted the percentage of calls answered within 
30 seconds. The customers’ rating from the survey was three percentage points lower than in Fiscal 2025, at 91 percent, 
after surveys of more than double the customers that were surveyed in Fiscal 2025. This measure still remained higher than 
the previous years.
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Completed requests for interpretation 167,095 152,274 131,289 158,052 153,936 * * Neutral *
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 98.4% 82.4% NA NA NA * * NA Up
Average wait time to speak with a customer service agent 
(minutes:seconds) 40:54 28:42 44:42 33:08 12:02 * * Down Down
CORE facility rating 99 95 98 92 94 * * Neutral Up
Calls answered within 30 seconds (%) 67.5% 63.8% 32.5% 27.1% 25.4% * * Down Up
Agency customers surveyed for overall customer satisfaction 25,167 27,148 11,135 9,698 23,120 * * Down Up
Customers rating service good or better (%) 73.0% 79.0% 84.0% 94.0% 91.0% 71.0% 71.0% Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 432>>>
Page 420  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $4,035.3 $4,652.0 $4,052.5 $4,454.6 $5,600.9 $5,568.8 $5,765.7 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $3,948.4 $4,704.1 $4,170.1 $4,414.9 $5,559.5 $5,568.8 $5,502.4 Up
Personnel 11,772 11,891 11,896 11,998 11,612 12,265 12,228 Up
Overtime paid ($000,000) $155.7 $198.0 $178.6 $161.0 $195.7 $179.8 $178.4 Up
Capital commitments ($000,000) $235.1 $416.6 $862.2 $593.1 $755.1 $1,302.5 $840.8 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds       4 Includes funds authorized in 
the City budget only, and excludes federal, State and other capital funds utilized by NYCHA.  “NA” - Not Available          * None
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Lisa Bova-Hiatt continues to serve as Chief Executive Officer of the New York City Housing Authority. 
• The indicator ‘Rent collection without arrears (%)’ was added to Goal 1a to provide more context on current rent 
collection efforts on a rolling 12-month basis, in addition to the existing indicator on the rent collection rate, which 
includes historical arrears in its total.
• Fiscal 2026 data for ‘Emails responded to within 14 days (%)’ is NA as NYCHA no longer collects this data.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information on items referenced in the narrative, go to:
• NYCHA’s Transformational Plan:  
https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/nycha/downloads/pdf/NYCHA_Transformation_Plan_Final.pdf
• NYCHA’s Federal Monitor: 
https://www.nychamonitor.com/
• PACT Project Progress & Compliance Oversight:  
https://my.nycha.info/publicsite/pactprogress 
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/nycha.
<<<PAGE 433>>>
LANDMARKS PRESERVATION 
COMMISSION Lisa Kersavage, Chair
LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION  |  Page 421
WHAT WE DO
The Landmarks Preservation 
Commission (LPC) is responsible 
for protecting New York City’s 
architecturally, historically, and 
culturally significant buildings and 
sites by granting them landmark or 
historic district status and regulating 
them after designation. LPC was 
established by the New York City 
Landmarks Law, passed in 1965, 
which aims to safeguard the buildings 
and places that represent New York 
City’s cultural, social, economic, 
political, and architectural history. 
As of the end of Fiscal 2026, the 
Commission has designated 38,550 
buildings and sites, including 1,473 
individual landmarks and 159 historic 
districts and extensions across all five 
boroughs. 
LPC helps protect the City’s landmark 
properties by regulating changes 
made to these buildings and sites. The 
Commission reviews applications for 
work on designated properties, issues 
permits, provides technical guidance 
and education on preservation, 
investigates complaints of illegal 
work, and initiates action to ensure 
compliance with the Landmarks Law. 
The Agency works closely with property 
owners and other City agencies on 
projects that help landmarks adapt to 
meet New York City’s evolving needs, 
including work that supports housing 
creation, increases accessibility, and 
improves climate resiliency and energy 
efficiency. LPC also administers the 
federally-funded Historic Preservation 
Grant Program that provides financial 
assistance to low- to moderate-
income landmark property owners to 
help fund restoration work on their 
designated properties.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
For over 60 years, LPC has seen the power of preservation to revitalize communities, 
support economic development, drive investment into existing buildings, enhance 
attractions for tourists, and foster pride in neighborhoods. LPC is committed to 
advancing equity across all aspects of the Commission’s work, prioritizing landmark 
designations that tell the stories of all New Yorkers, particularly those whose histories 
have been underrepresented or overlooked, and integrating fairness, transparency, 
and efficiency into regulation and outreach.
In Fiscal 2026, LPC designated three buildings linked to New York City’s rich 
immigration history: Public School 15 Annex in Downtown Brooklyn, the Church of 
Saint Mary on Manhattan’s Lower East Side, and the Lithuanian Alliance Building in 
Manhattan’s Chelsea neighborhood. Public School 15 Annex was once home to the 
Girls’ Continuation School which pioneered opportunities for women, many of whom 
were first- and second-generation Americans. The Church of Saint Mary was central to 
welcoming the City’s earliest Catholics from Ireland and continues to support recent 
immigrants from Spanish-speaking communities. The Lithuanian Alliance Building 
has been the headquarters of the nation’s oldest continually operating Lithuanian 
organization since 1910, continuously providing services for immigrants.
Also in Fiscal 2026, in coordination with the Department of City Planning’s Midtown 
South Mixed-Use Plan, LPC designated five individual landmarks in Manhattan’s 
Garment District, including the Lefcourt Clothing Center, which served as home to 
the International Ladies’ Garment Workers’ Union. The designations and rezoning will 
facilitate the adaptive reuse of these buildings and enable the transfer of expanded air 
rights for additional housing creation.
In Fiscal 2026, as part of the Block by Block Housing Plan, LPC launched a suite of tools 
to help owners of designated buildings to create more housing. The new resources make 
it easier for homeowners to build Ancillary Dwelling Units (ADUs) and for landmark 
property owners to use Transferable Development Rights (TDRs), supporting housing 
creation while generating revenue for owners to help preserve the character and integrity 
of the City’s historic districts and individual landmarks. LPC launched an interactive map 
showing where homeowners can create ADUs in historic districts and created a dedicated 
team of staff to help owners navigate the approval process.
LPC prioritizes direct support for property owners and accessibility and transparency 
in the Agency’s regulation and funding opportunities. In Fiscal 2026, LPC introduced 
rules that will expedite the application and review process by expanding the range of 
projects eligible for staff-level approval, reducing the number that requires a public 
hearing. These measures  allow homeowners and small business owners to obtain 
permits more quickly and reliably, reducing costs and the timeframe to undertake work.
Also in Fiscal 2026, staff led presentations in two historic districts in Staten Island 
and six historic districts in Upper Manhattan and presented to leaders of faith-
based organizations about affordable housing development at landmarked religious 
properties. These in-person engagements make information more accessible by 
connecting property owners directly with LPC staff who can answer questions and 
provide continued guidance to owners as they prepare permit and grant applications.
<<<PAGE 434>>>
Page 422  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Identify and protect qualifying architectural, historical, cultural and archaeological assets in all 
five boroughs.
Goal 1a Identify and designate eligible individual buildings, interiors, scenic landmarks, and historic districts as 
landmarks.
Goal 1b Facilitate appropriate work on landmark buildings through technical assistance and timely issuance of permits.
Goal 1c Increase landmark regulations compliance.
Goal 1d Evaluate potential impacts to archaeological resources in a timely manner.
<<<PAGE 435>>>
LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION  |  Page 423
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Identify and protect qualifying architectural, historical, cultural and archaeological assets in 
all five boroughs.
Goal 1a Identify and designate eligible individual buildings, interiors, scenic landmarks, and historic districts as 
landmarks.
In Fiscal 2026, the Commission completed 10 designations, including eight individual landmarks and two historic districts, 
comprising a total of 436 buildings and sites. Fiscal 2026 designations include the Beverly Square West and Ditmas Park 
West historic districts in Brooklyn, five individual landmarks associated with the historic development of the Garment 
District in Manhattan, and three buildings linked to New York City’s immigration history in both Brooklyn and Manhattan. 
There is not an annual target for the number of landmark designations, which are subject to fluctuations year-to-year as 
designations are the outcome of an organic process with many steps, including extensive research and survey work and 
outreach with stakeholders.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Individual, interior, and scenic landmarks, and historic districts 
designated 3 12 11 4 10 * * Up *
– Individual, interior, and scenic landmarks designated 1 10 10 4 8 * * Up *
– Historic districts designated 2 2 1 0 2 * * Down *
 Total buildings designated 147 81 164 4 436 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Facilitate appropriate work on landmark buildings through technical assistance and timely issuance of 
permits.
LPC helps preserve the City’s designated landmark properties by regulating changes made to these buildings and sites. All 
applications to make changes to designated buildings are reviewed, approved, and tracked by the Commission. Actions 
can include issuing Certificates of No Effect (CNEs) when work requires a permit from the Department of Buildings but will 
not affect the significant architectural features of the building; Permits for Minor Work (PMWs) for minor exterior changes 
such as painting, window or door replacement, or brick repointing; and Expedited Certificates of No Effect (XCNEs) for 
interior work.
In Fiscal 2026, there were 11,766 permit applications submitted to LPC for review and 11,578 actions taken on those permit 
applications, with the number of work permit applications remaining constant and the number of actions taken on these 
applications increasing two percent over Fiscal 2025. In Fiscal 2026, approximately 90 percent of CNEs were issued within 
10 business days, down two percentage points from Fiscal 2025; 95 percent of XCNEs were issued within two business 
days, down three percentage points; and 90 percent of PMWs were issued within 10 business days, down two percentage 
points. Permit issuance time is informed by many factors, and fluctuations are standard and expected.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Work permit applications received 12,378 12,211 11,436 11,748 11,766 * * Neutral *
 Actions taken on work permit applications 11,423 11,489 11,120 11,324 11,578 * * Neutral *
Certificates of No Effect issued within 10 business days (%) 84% 83% 86% 92% 90% 85% 85% Neutral Up
Expedited Certificates of No Effect issued within two business days 
(%) 99% 98% 98% 98% 95% 100% 100% Neutral Up
Permits for minor work issued within 10 business days (%) 82% 84% 86% 92% 90% 85% 85% Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 436>>>
Page 424  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1c Increase landmark regulations compliance.
LPC’s Enforcement Department investigates every complaint received about illegal work or disrepair. In Fiscal 2026, the 
Enforcement Department received 774 complaints and investigated 747 complaints and 519 properties, all reflecting slight 
declines from Fiscal 2025. Because some complaints are received late in the fiscal year, the number investigated within the 
same reporting period will not always match the number received.
There is no correlation between the number of complaints received and the number of enforcement actions taken. While 
some complaints result in multiple violations, others do not warrant enforcement action after investigation. Enforcement 
actions can include Warning Letters, Summonses, and Stop Work Orders. All Summonses are returnable to the Office of 
Administrative Trials and Hearings (OATH). There were 566 enforcement actions taken in Fiscal 2026, a 21 percent increase 
from the 468 taken in Fiscal 2025. Enforcement actions are influenced by external factors, including citywide economic 
activity and new business development. As a result, fluctuations in annual violation totals are standard and expected. 100 
percent of violations were admitted to or upheld at OATH, the same level as last year.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Complaints received 393 572 672 785 774 * * Up *
Complaints investigated 397 711 1,000 766 747 * * Up *
Properties investigated 382 555 748 531 519 * * Up *
 Enforcement actions taken: Total Warning Letters, Summonses, 
and Stop Work Orders issued 387 427 468 468 566 * * Up *
Violations admitted to or upheld at the Office of Administrative 
Trials and Hearings (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1d Evaluate potential impacts to archaeological resources in a timely manner.
Archaeological applications involve the review of proposed subsurface work subject to environmental review regulations 
and, for some sites, the Landmarks Law. The Commission oversees any ensuing archaeology, and, if important archaeological 
resources are discovered, determines and supervises appropriate mitigation. The percentage of applications reviewed within 
10 business days remained at 97 percent, the same rate as Fiscal 2025, well exceeding the target of 85 percent.  
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Archaeology applications reviewed within 10 business days (%) 98% 97% 97% 97% 97% 85% 85% Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 96% 88% 87% 74% 43% * * Down Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 98% 94% 98% 90% 82% * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 437>>>
LANDMARKS PRESERVATION COMMISSION  |  Page 425
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $6.5 $7.2 $8.0 $7.7 $9.0 $9.0 $8.1 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $7.9 $7.6 $8.5 $10.4 $11.4 $7.3 $7.3 Up
Personnel 73 76 73 69 73 81 78 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000) $13 $24 $21 $14 $7 $7 $7 Up
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        001 - Personal Services $6.7 $7.1 All
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $1.0 $1.8 All
Agency Total $7.7 $9.0 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.   
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Lisa Kersavage was appointed as Chair of the Landmarks Preservation Commission in April 2026.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information, go to:
• New York City Administrative Code, Title 23, Chapter 3: Landmarks Preservation and Historic Districts:  
https://codelibrary.amlegal.com/codes/newyorkcity/latest/NYCadmin/0-0-0-133896
• Press Releases:  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/lpc/about/news.page
• ADU Eligibility in Historic Districts Map:  
https://t.co/WV9uCcUMOD
• ADU Fact Sheet:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/lpc/downloads/pdf/pubs/LPC-ADU-Fact-Sheet.pdf
• Applicant Guidance for Transfer of Development Rights from Landmarks:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/lpc/downloads/pdf/pubs/LPC-TDR-Guidance-for-Applicants.pdf
• Sixty Years of LPC Story Map:  
https://storymaps.arcgis.com/stories/981732666b194d63ab291a64b9543080
<<<PAGE 438>>>
Page 426  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
• Discover NYC Landmarks Interactive Map:  
https://www1.nyc.gov/site/lpc/designations/maps.page
• LPC Permit Guidebook:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/lpc/applications/permit-application-guide.page
• Archaeology Report Finder:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/lpc/about/archaeology-reports.page
• Portico Permit Portal:  
https://portico.lpc.nyc.gov
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/landmarks.
<<<PAGE 439>>>
Administrative 
Services
<<<PAGE 440>>>
Administrative 
Services
Office of Technology  
and Innovation p 459
Department 
of Finance p 449
Department of Citywide 
Administrative Services p 429
Department of Records 
& Information Services p 443 p 467
Board of  
Elections
<<<PAGE 441>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE 
SERVICES Yume Kitasei, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  |  Page 429
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Citywide 
Administrative Services (DCAS) 
makes City government work for all 
New Yorkers. DCAS’ commitment 
to equity, effectiveness, and 
sustainability guides the work to 
provide City agencies with the 
resources and support needed to 
succeed. DCAS’ duties include 
recruiting, hiring, and training 
employees; managing 56 public 
buildings; acquiring, selling, and 
leasing City property; purchasing 
more than $1 billion in supplies and 
equipment each year; overseeing 
the greenest municipal vehicle fleet 
in the country; and leading the City’s 
efforts to reduce carbon emissions 
from government operations.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
Equity is central to DCAS’ mission to enable a more effective, equitable, and 
sustainable City government. DCAS is bringing renewed energy to building a 
workforce, workplace, and asset portfolio that reflects and serves every New 
Yorker, in step with the current Administration’s citywide equity priorities. Equity 
remains inseparable from its broader mission: smarter asset use, better service, a 
modern workforce and workplace, and climate leadership working together to 
build a City government that works for everyone.
A modern workforce starts with access. In Fiscal 2026, DCAS participated in 268 
career outreach events, reaching more than 15,500 participants, while partnering 
with 66 agencies and mayoral offices to train staff and field 339 inquiries on 
the City’s Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy and related City Charter 
obligations. To support data-informed workforce planning, DCAS offers agencies 
several services including consultations and tools for interpreting workforce 
metrics, and review of annual EEO plans and a quarterly report tracking progress 
on training, recruitment, and retention goals required by local law and the City 
Charter. DCAS also produces the New York City Government Workforce Profile 
Report, a data-driven look at demographic and workforce trends across agencies, 
and manages the 55-a Program, which lets qualified people with disabilities join 
municipal government without taking a civil service exam, expanding access to 
opportunities across City government. 
DCAS’ equity work extends to the City’s physical footprint. As DCAS advances the 
City’s climate leadership goals, it has pledged that at least 50 percent of new fast-
charging infrastructure will be installed in New York State-designated disadvantaged 
communities (DACs), areas that experience a disproportionate burden of negative 
environmental and public health effects, as well as socioeconomic disadvantages. 
DCAS is applying that same equity lens to its evolving real estate portfolio, including 
its role in the City’s ongoing effort to close facilities on Rikers Island, ensuring that 
decisions about City-owned space serve New Yorkers more fairly.
More equitable procurement also remains a priority. DCAS continues to expand 
contracting opportunities for City-certified Minority and Women-owned Business 
Enterprises (M/WBEs) in support of the City’s goal of awarding $60 billion in M/
WBE contracts by 2030. In Fiscal 2026, DCAS awarded 61 contracts totaling nearly 
$16.6 million to M/WBEs through the M/WBE Small Purchase Method. DCAS 
also participated in 25 M/WBE networking events and hosted 298 one-on-one 
meetings with potential M/WBE partners, a 16.9 percent increase over the prior 
year, connecting more underrepresented vendors to the full range of services 
DCAS provides.
<<<PAGE 442>>>
Page 430  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Help City agencies fulfill their workforce needs.
Goal 1a Increase the public’s access to information about employment opportunities in City government.
Goal 1b Ensure a competitive and diverse candidate pool for City employment opportunities.
Goal 1c Ensure timely administration of civil service exams.
Goal 1d Provide a wide range of training opportunities.
SERVICE 2 Manage and operate properties owned and leased by the City.
Goal 2a Improve cleanliness and maintenance ratings for non-court DCAS-managed facilities.
Goal 2b Meet timeliness standards for in-house trade shop construction and repair work.
Goal 2c Consolidate and reduce City office space.
SERVICE 3 Manage the City’s surplus real and personal property.
Goal 3a Maximize revenue from the sale of real property, surplus goods and savings from the reallocation of usable 
surplus items.
SERVICE 4 Procure goods and select services for City agencies.
Goal 4a Maximize competition in the procurement process.
Goal 4b Use citywide buying power to achieve and maximize best value for goods and services.
Goal 4c Promote equitable contracting and procurement opportunities.
SERVICE 5 Manage energy use by City agencies.
Goal 5a Maximize citywide efforts to monitor and reduce energy use to reach greenhouse gas reduction goals.
Goal 5b Reduce the energy-related carbon footprint of City buildings.
Goal 5c Increase the City’s renewable energy capacity.
SERVICE 6 Manage the City’s fleet and fuel resources.
Goal 6a Reduce fuel use and emissions.
Goal 6b Optimize fleet resources to meet agency needs.
<<<PAGE 443>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  |  Page 431
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Help City agencies fulfill their workforce needs.
Goal 1a Increase the public’s access to information about employment opportunities in City government.
Applications for civil service exams decreased by 28 percent, from 166,000 in Fiscal 2025 to 119,117 in Fiscal 2026. This 
reflects the types of exams included in the Fiscal 2026 exam schedule rather than a decline in demand from the public. 
Application volume for civil service exams fluctuates annually based on which exams are offered. In Fiscal 2026, DCAS 
administered a greater number of promotional and licensed professional exams, like physical therapist and public health 
nurse, which typically attract smaller applicant pools. By comparison, the Fiscal 2025 exam schedule included a higher 
number of open-competitive exams for entry-level positions in public safety, IT, and administrative professional titles, which 
generally attract larger applicant pools than the aforementioned exams. 
DCAS Career Pathways team is responsible for conducting outreach to the public to increase awareness of City jobs, 
examinations, and the application process. Outreach is done year-round through in-person informational events, virtual 
events, career fairs, social media, and partnerships with educational institutions, community-based organizations, elected 
officials, and faith-based institutions. Additionally, DCAS provides information about exams and career mobility internally 
with City employees through citywide career counseling sessions and bi-monthly informational sessions. Over 15,500 
individuals participated in such events. NYC Jobs received 1,775,665 employment applications, an increase from the previous 
record of 1,770,614 applications in Fiscal 2025, which indicates continued public interest in City jobs. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
® Applications received for all DCAS civil service exams 164,942 119,599 112,944 166,000 119,117 * * Down *
Employment applications received via Jobs NYC 604,373 736,011 1,373,696 1,770,614 1,775,665 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Ensure a competitive and diverse candidate pool for City employment opportunities.
The proportion of male new hires increased by three percentage points, from 58.0 percent in Fiscal 2025 to 61 percent in 
Fiscal 2026. Correspondingly, the proportion of female hires declined from 40.6 percent to 37.3 percent during the same 
reporting period. The higher proportion of male hires reflects continued recruitment in historically male-dominated job 
titles, such as police officer, city park worker, and sanitation worker, which remained among the most frequently hired titles 
in Fiscal 2026 and accounted for a significant share of overall hiring. At the same time, in Fiscal 2026, nearly two-thirds 
of new hires at mayoral City agencies identified as people of color, reflecting continued progress towards a more inclusive 
municipal workforce. DCAS continues to support City agencies in recruiting a workforce that reflects the diversity of New 
York City. Beyond recruitment, DCAS assists agencies in analyzing employee demographic trends by providing timely, 
actionable metrics to inform EEO efforts. These efforts include quarterly demographic reports summarizing incumbents, new 
hires, promotions, separations, and areas of underrepresentation by race/ethnicity and gender. DCAS also offers training 
to help agencies interpret these reports and apply best practices in identifying, recruiting, and hiring diverse talent aligned 
with their stated diversity goals.
<<<PAGE 444>>>
Page 432  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 ® New hires — Asian/Pacific Islander (%) 11.5% 10.5% 12.8% 11.7% 14.2% * * Up *
 ® New hires — Black (%) 25.1% 30.2% 29.6% 28.8% 24.8% * * Neutral *
 ® New hires — Hispanic (%) 22.6% 21.4% 21.5% 20.7% 24.8% * * Neutral *
 ® New hires — Some other race (%) 2.2% 3.0% 2.9% 2.8% 2.9% * * Up *
 ® New hires — White (%) 26.5% 22.6% 19.7% 20.4% 19.9% * * Down *
 ® New hires — Race/ethnicity: Prefer not to say or unknown (%) 12.1% 12.3% 13.5% 15.5% 13.3% * * Up *
 ® New hires — Female (%) 45.1% 46.2% 47.5% 40.6% 37.3% * * Down *
 ® New hires — Male (%) 54.2% 52.7% 51.4% 58.0% 61.0% * * Up *
 ® New hires — Other gender (%) 0.2% 0.4% 0.5% 0.4% 0.3% * * Up *
 ® New hires — Gender: Prefer not to say or unknown (%) 0.6% 0.8% 0.6% 1.0% 0.9% * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Ensure timely administration of civil service exams.
DCAS improved the timeliness of civil service exam administration in Fiscal 2026. Median time from exam administration 
to exam results was 101 business days, over 50 business days faster than in Fiscal 2025, driven by 57 exams that took 
fewer than 100 days for completion. This improvement reflects DCAS’s ongoing work to assess internal processes, align 
procedures, and implement efficiencies aimed at reducing exam completion times. However, median completion time will 
vary year to year, depending on the mix of exams administered. Single-part exams are quicker to grade than multi-part 
exams, and investigation-before-appointment (IBA) exams take longer due to the added investigative stage. Exams with a 
greater number of takers also tend to take a longer time, since more takers generally means more appeals. 
The civil service exams open for filing by DCAS went up by 12 percent, from 186 in Fiscal 2025 to 208 in Fiscal 2026 due to 
many of the exams being for promotional titles. The exam schedule is largely determined by Agency hiring and workforce 
development needs and is released at the beginning of each fiscal year. Active employees in competitive title on exam 
schedule decreased from 53.4 percent to 44.8 percent during the same reporting period. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Median time from exam administration to exam results comple -
tion for DCAS-administered exams (business days) 167 149 139 158 101 197 197 Down Down
Civil service exams open for filing by DCAS 178 200 205 186 208 185 185 Neutral *
Active employees in competitive title on exam schedule (%) 44.0% 58.2% 55.4% 53.4% 44.8% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1d Provide a wide range of training opportunities.
DCAS recognizes that training is essential in increasing employee performance and enhancing workplace culture. As a 
result, DCAS provided a rich and high-quality set of training opportunities in Fiscal 2026. Managerial and professional 
development program participation increased by 14 percent, from 18,769 in Fiscal 2025 to 21,312 in Fiscal 2026. This was 
driven by increased completions in the City-specific and technology trainings.
<<<PAGE 445>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  |  Page 433
In Fiscal 2026, equity and inclusion trainings completed increased 21 percent to 440,632, and mandatory equity and 
inclusion trainings completed increased 23 percent to 429,126. This increase reflects DCAS’ successful expansion of access 
to equity and inclusion training, streamlined onboarding through NYCityLearn, ongoing communication and engagement 
with agencies to support employee participation, and the availability of Train-the-Trainer sessions. These sessions enabled 
agencies to deliver mandatory equity and inclusion content directly to their own staff and improve completion rates. 
Additionally, the growing interest in non-mandatory Disability Awareness and Etiquette training increased completion rates. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Average rating for professional development training sessions (%) 94% 93% 92% 90% 89% 92% 92% Neutral Up
® Trainings completed by City employees/participants in manage -
rial and professional development 8,629 12,161 13,208 18,769 21,312 10,377 10,377 Up Up
® Trainings completed by City employees/participants in equity and 
inclusion 282,562 421,969 435,996 364,333 440,632 284,995 407,433 Up Up
– Mandatory trainings completed by City employees/participants in 
equity and inclusion 276,779 410,104 410,653 349,481 429,126 268,429 390,079 Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Manage and operate properties owned and leased by the City.
Goal 2a Improve cleanliness and maintenance ratings for non-court DCAS-managed facilities.
In Fiscal 2026, the average satisfaction rating for non-court DCAS-managed space slightly decreased to 67 percent due 
to staffing constraints. The survey rates most items on a three-point scale, Adequate (highest), Marginal, and Inadequate 
(lowest), with overall performance calculated as a percentage. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average building cleanliness and condition rating for DCAS-
managed space (non-court) (%) 72% 62% 59% 68% 67% 72% 72% Neutral Up
CORE facility rating 100 99 100 100 99 95 95 Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Meet timeliness standards for in-house trade shop construction and repair work.
In Fiscal 2026, DCAS completed 8,682 trade shop work orders with an average time to complete work orders for minor 
repairs within four business days. In-house trade shop work orders completed within 30 days remained at 96 percent, over 
20 percentage points above the target. DCAS trade shop service levels for maintenance and repair work remain consistent 
year after year, even as the team takes on increasingly complex priority projects, such as upgrading and implementing 
project management software for DCAS work orders and construction projects. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 In-house trade shop work orders completed within 30 days (%) NA 95% 96% 96% 96% 75% 80% NA Up
Average time to complete in-house trade shop work orders (days) 5.9 6.1 4.5 4.3 4.0 7.0 7.0 Down Down
Completed in-house trade shop work orders 7,513 7,698 7,971 8,516 8,682 7,000 7,000 Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 446>>>
Page 434  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 2c Consolidate and reduce City office space.
In Fiscal 2026, the City entered into, renewed, or amended 48 leases, an increase from 33 in Fiscal 2025, occupying 2.6 
million square feet of private space. Approximately 31 percent of this fiscal year’s agreements were the result of new leasing 
needs, and approximately 69 percent were the result of either renewals, relocations, or amendments of existing programs. 
In Fiscal 2026, DCAS’ activity was largely focused on modernizing the City’s office portfolio, which consists of reducing 
the square footage associated with new leasing needs and consolidating use of existing office space. This work has driven 
an almost 11 percent reduction in square footage associated with lease-in agreements from 2,938 in Fiscal 2025 to 2,629 
in Fiscal 2026. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Lease-in agreements executed 29 32 35 33 48 * * Up *
Square footage associated with executed lease-in agreements (000) 1,136 2,535 2,884 2,938 2,629 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Manage the City’s surplus real and personal property.
Goal 3a Maximize revenue from the sale of real property, surplus goods and savings from the reallocation of 
usable surplus items.
Surplus-goods revenue totaled approximately $11.1 million in Fiscal 2026, exceeding the target of about $7.9 million, while 
auto-auction revenue reached approximately $9.2 million, above the target of about $5.7 million. Revenue from surplus 
inventory increased in Fiscal 2026 primarily due to the successful transition to a new auction platform and vendor. The new 
vendor’s broader reach and enhanced marketing efforts increased auction visibility, resulting in greater bidder participation 
and stronger competitive bidding. In addition, several high-value auctions contributed significantly to overall revenue, 
including the sale of a Department of Transportation oil barge ($203,000), multiple large lots of IT assets from DCAS (up 
to $57,000), thermal printers from the Board of Elections ($55,500), and various specialized equipment and materials from 
the Departments of Environmental Protection and Sanitation. These higher-value sales, combined with increased auction 
exposure, resulted in an increase in surplus inventory revenue. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Lease revenue generated ($000) $38,818 $46,606 $44,193 $42,021 $41,014 $38,794 $39,783 Neutral *
 Revenue generated from the sale of surplus goods ($000) $8,617 $13,740 $10,392 $7,192 $11,087 $7,893 $9,032 Neutral *
– Revenue generated from auto auctions ($000) $6,538 $11,818 $9,046 $5,859 $9,207 $5,692 $6,831 Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 4 Procure goods and select services for City agencies.
Goal 4a Maximize competition in the procurement process.
The average number of bidders per bid decreased from 4.4 in Fiscal 2025 to 3.5 in Fiscal 2026. The decrease reflects 
reduced vendor participation due to market conditions, including tariffs, and the increasing specialization of procurement 
requirements such as various motor vehicles, which has slightly narrowed the pool of qualified vendors. During the same 
reporting period, cost avoidance increased 22 percent, from $5.2 million to $6.4 million. 
<<<PAGE 447>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  |  Page 435
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average number of bidders per bid 3.2 3.5 4.4 4.4 3.5 3.4 3.4 Up *
Mayoral agency spending on goods against DCAS master contracts 
(%) 67% 87% 90% 87% 87% * * Up *
Mayoral agency spending on services against DCAS master con -
tracts (%) 13% 16% 17% 15% 13% * * Neutral *
Inspections deemed non-compliant 460 557 718 526 493 * * Neutral *
Inspections deemed non-compliant (%) 1.13% 1.39% 1.84% 1.15% 0.99% * * Down *
Value of cost avoidance ($000) $6,157 $4,973 $4,633 $5,207 $6,366 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 4b Use citywide buying power to achieve and maximize best value for goods and services.
The average time to fulfill an agency requisition increased by one day, from three days in Fiscal 2025 to four days in Fiscal 
2026. There are two contributing factors to this increase, one is back-ordered commodities, which delay deliveries, and 
the second is the use of third-party trucking services due to the existing storehouse fleet requiring mechanical repairs or 
replacements. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Value of goods and services purchased ($000,000) $1,141 $1,272 $1,884 $1,718 $1,889 * * Up *
Average time to fulfill an agency requisition (days) 3 4 3 3 4 * * Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 4c Promote equitable contracting and procurement opportunities.
The number of M/WBE Small Purchase Awards decreased, from 70 in Fiscal 2025 to 61 in Fiscal 2026. However, the total 
value of these contracts increased by 19 percent, from $13.9 million to $16.6 million during the same reporting period. 
This is due to the M/WBE threshold for the award amount for M/WBE contracts rising in the past years, yielding higher-
value contracts awarded. 
Driven by the commitment of DCAS’ M/WBE Program to expand vendor participation and supported by inter-agency 
networking events and increased peer-to-peer referrals within the vendor community, M/WBE one-on-one vendor 
engagement sessions rose by 17 percent, from 255 in Fiscal 2025 to 298 in Fiscal 2026—substantially surpassing the 
performance target of 180.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
M/WBE Small Purchase awards 54 50 59 70 61 * * Up Up
Value of M/WBE Small Purchase awards ($000) $4,222 $7,599 $7,945 $13,983 $16,592 * * Up Up
M/WBE one-on-one vendor engagement sessions 176 141 218 255 298 180 180 Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 448>>>
Page 436  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 5 Manage energy use by City agencies.
Goal 5a Maximize citywide efforts to monitor and reduce energy use to reach greenhouse gas reduction goals.
The City purchased a total of 28.9 trillion British Thermal Units (BTUs) of energy from utilities and other energy providers 
over Fiscal 2026, consisting of electricity, natural gas, and steam. The total energy increase can be partly attributed to the 
weather; Fiscal 2026 experienced more cooling degree days and heating degree days (a measure used to estimate energy 
requirements for cooling or heating) than in Fiscal 2025. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Electricity purchased (billions of kilowatt hours) 4.0 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.9 * * Neutral *
Total energy purchased (trillions of British thermal units) 28.9 27.5 27.9 28.6 28.9 * * Neutral Down
– Electricity (%) 47.0% 48.4% 47.8% 47.1% 46.0% * * Neutral *
– Natural gas (%) 46.8% 45.1% 46.1% 46.3% 47.0% * * Neutral *
– Steam (%) 6.3% 6.5% 6.1% 6.6% 7.0% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 5b Reduce the energy-related carbon footprint of City buildings.
The Climate Mobilization Act (CMA) of 2019 requires the City to reduce its overall greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 40 
percent by Fiscal 2025 and by 50 percent by Fiscal 2030, versus a Fiscal 2006 baseline. Those are key milestones on the 
path to achieving citywide carbon neutrality by 2050 and to demonstrate the City’s commitment to leading the fight against 
climate change. Over the past five fiscal years, DCAS completed more than 3,100 energy efficiency projects in over 1,600 
unique facilities, resulting in estimated GHG reductions of approximately 192,000 metric tons annually. In Fiscal 2026, DCAS 
completed 748 energy efficiency projects, which are estimated to reduce 41,095 metric tons of GHG emissions annually, 
the equivalent of removing over 8,900 cars from the road. This represents the second largest annual emissions reduction 
DCAS has achieved over the past five fiscal years. 
While Fiscal 2026 performance did not achieve the ambitious stretch target of 50,000 Metric Tons of Carbon Dioxide 
Equivalent (MTCO2e) reduction, the City continues to make significant progress toward the overarching decarbonization 
goal set by Local Law 97 of 2019. Several large energy retrofit projects expected to be completed in Fiscal 2026 experienced 
construction delays due to procurement and contract issues, as well as Agency staff vacancies, which slowed the pace 
of project completion. DCAS is actively working to address these challenges in Fiscal 2027 while sustaining the progress 
achieved this fiscal year. Notably, the estimated avoided energy cost from all energy projects was up 23 percent during the 
same reporting period, surpassing the Fiscal 2026 target. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Annual estimated reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all 
energy projects (MTCO2e) 33,290 29,096 28,344 60,213 41,095 50,000 50,000 Up *
 Cumulative estimated reduction in greenhouse gas emissions 
from all energy projects (MTCO2e) 333,908 363,004 391,348 451,561 492,657 512,559 542,657 Up Up
Annual estimated avoided energy cost from all energy projects 
($000,000) $8.88 $7.16 $11.83 $14.41 $17.78 $12.80 $12.80 Up *
Cumulative estimated avoided energy cost from all energy projects 
($000,000) $119.23 $126.39 $138.22 $152.63 $170.41 $165.17 $183.21 Up Up
Annual energy retrofit/conservation projects completed 550 502 589 715 748 * * Up *
Cumulative energy retrofit/conservation projects completed 4,424 4,926 5,515 6,230 6,978 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 449>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  |  Page 437
Goal 5c Increase the City’s renewable energy capacity.
An essential element to reaching the City’s goal for GHG emission reduction is the installation of clean energy technologies 
at City facilities. The 35.30 megawatts (MW) of solar capacity installed at the end of Fiscal 2026 represents a 13 percent 
increase from Fiscal 2025 and a remarkable 111 percent increase from Fiscal 2022. Additionally, DCAS has over 37.8 MW 
of solar projects currently in development. DCAS will continue to expedite the planning, procurement, and implementation 
of new solar projects in Fiscal 2027. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Cumulative installed solar capacity (megawatts) 16.76 21.94 24.17 31.32 35.30 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 6 Manage the City’s fleet and fuel resources.
Goal 6a Reduce fuel use and emissions.
DCAS demonstrates its commitment to fleet sustainability through the NYC Clean Fleet Plan, which set a goal to reduce 
GHG from the City fleet by 50 percent by Calendar 2025, a promise kept. Moreover, DCAS currently operates the largest 
electric fleet in New York State and is working to implement Local Law 140 of 2023, which calls for the full electrification 
of the City fleet by 2038, subject to commercial availability and reliability. The proportion of electric vehicles in the citywide 
fleet rose by seven percent and by 11 percent within the DCAS-managed fleet. Hybrid and alternative-fuel vehicles hit record 
highs, making up 79 percent of the citywide fleet and 92 percent of the DCAS-managed fleet. The remaining traditional 
gas-powered vehicles are mostly police and emergency response units for which suitable alternatives are not available. 
However, since Fiscal 2020, most newly purchased police patrol and utility vehicles have been hybrid models. In accordance 
with Local Law 38 of 2005, every vehicle acquired in Fiscal 2026 earned the highest possible emissions rating for both the 
citywide and DCAS-managed fleets. 
To advance fleet electrification, DCAS installed 293 electric vehicle charging ports in Fiscal 2026, up 33 percent from 221 
in Fiscal 2025. Considering staffing limitations, DCAS continued to prioritize Level 3 fast charger deployment during Fiscal 
2026, reducing the scope of Level 2 overnight charger installations. This strategic shift ensures efficient charging access 
for pickup trucks, vans, and law enforcement electric vehicles (EVs), which depend more heavily on fast charging than 
standard sedans. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Hybrid or alternative fuel vehicles in the citywide fleet (%) 68% 71% 75% 77% 79% 79% 82% Up Up
– Hybrid or alternative fuel vehicles in the DCAS-managed fleet (%) 82% 86% 88% 91% 92% 91% 93% Up Up
 Vehicles with highest emission ratings purchased pursuant to 
Local Law 38 in the citywide fleet (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral Up
– Vehicles with highest emission ratings purchased pursuant to Lo -
cal Law 38 in DCAS-managed fleet (%) 100% 99% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Neutral Up
Electric vehicles in the citywide fleet 3,477 4,646 5,198 5,569 5,970 6,000 6,500 Up Up
– Electric vehicles in the DCAS-managed fleet 612 909 975 1,082 1,206 1,120 1,250 Up Up
Biofuel used in diesel (%) 11% 11% 68% 94% 95% 95% 95% Up Up
Electric vehicle charging ports installed 158 507 346 221 293 250 300 Neutral Up
Cumulative electric vehicle charging ports installed 1,094 1,538 1,865 2,072 2,371 2,250 2,650 Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 450>>>
Page 438  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 6b Optimize fleet resources to meet agency needs.
In Fiscal 2026, the City achieved an in-service rate of 87 percent citywide and 99 percent for the DCAS-managed fleet. 
While the DCAS-managed fleet exceeded its performance target, the citywide fleet fell short by three percentage points. 
Several factors contributed to this static percentage, including ongoing supply chain disruptions that delayed new vehicle 
procurement and reduced expense funding for EV replacements, contributing to an older fleet. The impact of the fleet’s 
age on vehicle availability was compounded by staffing reductions in mechanic roles, which limited the capacity to maintain 
and repair older vehicles and negatively affected the overall in-service rate.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Fleet in-service rate citywide (%) 90% 88% 88% 87% 87% 90% 90% Neutral Up
– Fleet in-service rate for DCAS-managed fleet (%) 98% 97% 98% 98% 99% 98% 98% Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Workplace injuries reported 33 28 31 38 31 * * Neutral Down
Accidents involving the public in DCAS-managed properties 17 25 12 12 8 * * Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 85% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Up Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 90% 97% 96% 96% 96% * * Neutral Up
Average wait time to speak with a customer service agent 
(minutes:seconds) NA 4:56 5:30 2:00 2:00 * * NA Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $1,532.7 $1,623.6 $1,823.5 $1,987.5 $1,981.4 $1,845.9 $1,988.9 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $63.3 $73.4 $72.3 $65.2 $69.3 $61.0 $63.9 Neutral
Personnel 2,063 2,068 2,111 2,097 2,139 2,598 2,603 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $28.0 $28.7 $30.0 $32.4 $23.3 $22.7 $22.6 Neutral
Capital commitments ($000,000) $48.5 $168.7 $101.6 $148.0 $106.9 $311.9 $257.2 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 451>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  |  Page 439
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $230.5 $246.2 
        001 - Human Capital $25.4 $27.7 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d
        005 - Board of Standards and Appeals $2.4 $2.8 *
        100 - Executive and Operations Support $35.9 $36.7 All
        200 - Division of Administration and Security $14.0 $15.8 All
        300 - Asset Management – Public Facilities $110.6 $116.1 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a
        400 - Office of Citywide Purchasing $11.4 $11.7 3a, 4a, 4b
        500 - Division of Real Estate Services $14.5 $15.4 3a
        600 - External Publications and Retailing $3.2 $3.4 *
        700 - Energy Management $8.6 $11.2 5a, 5b, 5c
        800 - Citywide Fleet Services $4.6 $5.3 3a, 6a, 6b
Other Than Personal Services - Total $1,757.0 $1,735.3 
        002 - Human Capital $9.1 $14.6 1a, 1b, 1c, 1d
        006 - Board of Standards and Appeals $0.1 $0.3 *
        190 - Executive and Operations Support $6.8 $13.6 All
        290 - Division of Administration and Security $45.5 $30.0 All
        390 - Asset Management – Public Facilities $240.7 $279.5 2a, 2b, 2c, 3a
        490 - Office of Citywide Purchasing $341.6 $94.6 3a, 4a, 4b
        590 - Division of Real Estate Services $5.1 $5.2 3a
        690 - External Publications and Retailing $0.5 $0.8 *
        790 - Energy Management $1,019.9 $1,198.9 5a, 5b, 5c, 6a, 6b
        890 - Citywide Fleet Services $87.8 $97.6 3a, 6a, 6b
Agency Total $1,987.5 $1,981.4 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter. * None
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Yume Kitasei was appointed as Commissioner of the Department of Citywide Administrative Services in February 2026.
• The indicator ‘Active employees in competitive title on exam schedule (%)’ was added in Goal 1c to provide transparency 
on the extent to which the City’s annual civil service exam schedule reports the hiring needs of the workforce for titles 
that require examinations to fill vacancies. This indicator offers insight into the share of active employees whose titles 
are represented on the exam schedule by demonstrating how the City aligns examination planning with Agency hiring 
priorities and workforce needs. Since the exam schedule is developed annually based on changing operation demands, 
this indicator serves as a measure of workforce coverage rather than performance. 
<<<PAGE 452>>>
Page 440  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
• The following figures in Goal 3a were updated:
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Lease revenue generated ($000)’ was revised from $38,794 to $39,783.
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Revenue generated from the sale of surplus goods ($000)’ was revised from $7,893 to 
$9,032. 
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Revenue generated from auto auctions ($000)’ was revised from $5,692 to $6,831.
• The indicator ‘Inspections deemed non-compliant (%)’ was added to Goal 4a to ensure the City is purchasing products 
that meet specification requirements and are safe to use for City agencies. If DCAS Quality Assurance sees there is 
a significant increase in non-compliant items, that should be a cause for concern as it could mean the City needs to 
review its contract and/or specification requirements to ensure the City is receiving products that can be safely used. 
• The following figures in Goal 4c were updated:
 − The indicator ‘M/WBE Small Purchase Contracts’ was renamed to ‘M/WBE Small Purchase Awards’ to align with 
the nomenclature used for the indicator ‘Value of M/WBE Noncompetitive Small Purchase Awards.’
 − The indicator ‘M/WBE one-on-one vendor meeting’ was renamed to ‘M/WBE one-on-one vendor engagement 
sessions’ to reflect the goal and purpose of the meetings with vendors. 
• Previously published Fiscal 2022 figure for the indicator ‘—Natural gas (%)’ in Goal 5a was revised from 46.7 percent 
to 46.8 percent. 
• Previously published Fiscal 2023 figures for the following indicators in Goal 5a were revised after internal data review:
 − ‘Total energy purchased (trillions of British thermal units)’ was revised from 27.8 to 27.5.
 − ‘—Electricity (%)’ was revised from 47.8 percent to 48.4 percent. 
 − ‘—Natural gas (%)’ was revised from 46.1 percent to 45.1 percent.
 − ‘—Steam (%)’ was revised from 6.1 percent to 6.5 percent.
• Previously published Fiscal 2024 figures for the following indicators in Goal 5a were revised after internal data review:
 − ‘Total energy purchased (trillions of British thermal units)’ was revised from 27.8 to 27.9. 
 − ‘—Electricity (%)’ was revised from 47.1 percent to 47.8 percent. 
• Previously published Fiscal 2025 figures for the following indicators in Goal 5a were revised after internal data review:
 − ‘Total energy purchased (trillions of British thermal units)’ was revised from 28.5 to 28.6. 
 − ‘—Natural gas (%)’ was revised from 46.2 percent to 46.3 percent. 
 − ‘—Steam (%)’ was revised from 6.7 percent to 6.6 percent. 
• The following figures in Goal 5b were updated:
 − The indicator ‘Annual estimated reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all energy projects (metric tons)’ was 
renamed ‘Annual estimated reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all energy projects (MTCO2e)’ to better 
reflect the measurement used for this indicator. 
 − The indicator ‘Cumulative estimated reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all energy projects (metric tons)’ 
was renamed ‘Cumulative estimated reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all energy projects (MTCO2e)’ 
to better reflect the measurement used for this indicator.
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Cumulative estimated reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from all energy projects 
(MTCO2e)’ was revised from 562,559 to 542,657. 
<<<PAGE 453>>>
DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES  |  Page 441
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Cumulative estimated avoided energy cost from all energy projects ($000,000)’ was revised 
from $177.97 to $183.21. 
 − Previously published figures for the indicators ‘Annual Estimated Reduction in GHG Emissions from All Energy 
Projects (MTCO2e),’ ‘Cumulative Estimated Reduction in GHG Emissions from All Energy Projects,’ ‘Annual 
Estimated Avoided Energy Cost from All Energy Projects,’ and ‘Cumulative Estimated Avoided Energy Costs from 
All Energy Projects,’ were revised for several reasons. First, updated greenhouse gas emission coefficients from 
the Mayor’s Office of Climate and Environmental Justice were applied retroactively to all past fiscal years. These 
coefficients measure the “carbon intensity” of the electricity grid, i.e., the amount of CO2 emitted per unit of 
electricity consumed. Moreover, the final closeout of certain energy retrofit projects prompted revisions in both the 
estimated energy and GHG reductions, while updates to project substantial completion dates caused some metrics 
to shift to different fiscal years. Third, DCAS improved its data collection methods for legacy projects, increasing 
the accuracy and completeness of project reporting. Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Hybrid or alternative fuel vehicles in 
the citywide fleet (%)’ in Goal 6a was revised from 81 percent to 82 percent. Additionally, the final closeout of 
certain energy retrofit projects led to adjustments in estimated energy and GHG reductions, as well as adjustments 
to project substantial completion dates, which in some cases led to project metrics being attributed to different 
fiscal years than previously reported.
• The following figures in Goal 6a were updated:
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Hybrid or alternative fuel vehicles in the DCAS-managed fleet (%)’ was revised from 91 
percent to 93 percent. 
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘—Electric vehicles in the DCAS-managed fleet’ was revised from 1,180 to 1,250.
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Electric vehicle charging ports installed’ was revised from 250 to 300.
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Cumulative electric vehicle charging ports installed’ was revised from 2,500 to 2,650.
• The following figures in Goal 6b were updated:
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Fleet in-service rate citywide (%)’ was revised from 98 percent to 90 percent. 
 − Fiscal 2027 target for ‘Fleet in-service rate for DCAS-managed fleet (%)’ was revised from 89 percent to 98 
percent.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• 55-a Program:  
http://www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/employment/55-a-program.page
• CityStore: The Official Store of the City of New York:  
061e33-3.myshopify.com/
• DCAS Data Sets on the NYC Open Data Portal:  
bit.ly/DCASOpenData
• DCAS Electric Vehicle Charging Network:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/fleet-sustainability.page
• DCAS Energy Management Reports and Publications:  
www1.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/energy-reports-and-publications.page
• DCAS M/WBE Program:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/business/m-wbe-program.page
<<<PAGE 454>>>
Page 442  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
• DCAS Newsletter Sign-Up:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/about/citywide-administrative-services-newsletter-sign-up.page
• DCAS Office of Citywide Recruitment Upcoming Outreach Events:  
www1.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/office-of-citywide-recruitment.page
• DCAS Surplus Goods Auctions:  
www.publicsurplus.com/sms/nycdcas,ny/list/current?orgid=195212
• Fleet Vehicle Auctions:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/business/vehicle-auction.page
• Follow DCAS on Facebook:  
www.facebook.com/NYCDCAS
• Follow DCAS on Instagram:  
www.instagram.com/nycdcas
• Follow DCAS on LinkedIn:  
www.linkedin.com/company/801129
• Follow DCAS on X (formerly known as Twitter):  
x.com/NYCDCAS
• Follow DCAS on YouTube:  
www.youtube.com/@dcasnyc
• Inside Citywide Podcast:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/about/inside-citywide-podcast.page
• Jobs NYC:  
www1.nyc.gov/jobs/index.page
• NYC Clean Fleet Plan Update:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/nyc-dcas-clean-fleet-update-report-2024.pdf
• NYC Demand Response Program:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/demand-response.page
• NYC Equal Employment Opportunity Policy:  
www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/agencies/nyc_eeo_policy.pdf
• NYC Fleet Newsletter:  
www1.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/fleet-news.page
• NYC Workforce Profile Reports:  
www1.nyc.gov/site/dcas/reports/workforce-reports.page
• Private Space Leased by the City:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/business/private-space-leased-by-the-city.page
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/
• Working for the City:  
https://www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/employment/why-you-should-work-for-the-city.page
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/dcas.
<<<PAGE 455>>>
DEPARTMENT OF RECORDS &  
INFORMATION SERVICES 
Shawn(ta) Smith-Cruz, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF RECORDS & INFORMATION SERVICES  |  Page 443
WHAT WE DO
The mission of the Department of 
Records and Information Services (DORIS) 
is to preserve and provide access to the 
historical and contemporary archives, 
publications, and records of New York City 
government, maintaining City records in 
accordance with professional archival and 
record management practices and making 
materials available across City agencies and 
the public, both online and in person.
The Department’s websites provide the 
public with access to more than 11.3 
million digitized items, including historical 
photographs, maps, and documents. The 
Municipal Library hosts the Government 
Publications Portal, a growing online 
collection of more than 74,000 reports and 
publications issued by City agencies, and 
the Historical Vital Records (HVR) platform 
provides free online access to 10.5 
million high-quality copies of historical 
birth, death, and marriage records. The 
Municipal Archives and Municipal Library 
staff annually respond to more than 
28,000 reference requests and provide 
access to approximately 185,000 cubic feet 
and more than 400 terabytes of historical 
city records and archival material, including 
more than 400,000 books, government 
reports, studies and other publications. 
Approximately 77 percent of the archival 
holdings require preservation work, which 
the Conservation Unit oversees through 
rehousing, conservation treatments, and 
other specialized measures. The Municipal 
Records Management Division develops 
and administers records management 
policies, operates records storage facilities, 
provides records management services to 
65 government entities, and oversees City 
government’s transition to digital records 
management.
The Department also manages the 
Electronic Records Management System 
(ERMS), launched in Fiscal 2022. Its 
RecordPoint tool enables agencies to 
retrieve and dispose of records in electronic 
format and is being implemented across 
all agencies; to date, 31 agencies use the 
system, which manages more than 215 
million records and now lets empowered 
agencies enforce retention and disposal to 
their mapped data repositories, properly 
managing records across their lifecycle.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
The records of New York City’s government serve critical functions—recording 
government decisions, showing interactions between residents and policymakers, 
and documenting the lives of individual New Yorkers. A focus on identifying 
previously hidden collections, repairing such records, inventorying, and digitizing, 
allows the Department to equitably and thoroughly document the history of City 
governance.  
DORIS focuses on projects that showcase the relevance and diversity of City 
government’s records. In Fiscal 2026, the Department continued to promote its 
storytelling initiative, “Neighborhood Stories”. The project gathers and permanently 
preserves the stories of New York City community members. In May 2026, the 
Department launched a new public platform featuring the first 50 Neighborhood 
Story interviews. The Department’s on-site exhibition, NYC’s Story: The City on 
Record, opened in April 2026. Organized by borough,  it features photographs 
documenting both defining historical events and everyday moments in the lives of 
New Yorkers. A companion online exhibition, RememberNYC.nyc, features more 
than 100 iconic items from the Municipal Archives collections.  
The Department strives to advance equity not only through the preservation and 
accessibility of the historical and contemporary records of City government, but also 
through its public programming and educational initiatives. The Department’s Lunch & 
Learn Series highlights the breadth and diversity of City history through conversations 
with leading authors, scholars, and historians whose work draws upon the collections 
of the Municipal Archives and Library. Recent programs have explored topics ranging 
from the Board of Education’s anti-communist investigations during the McCarthy 
era and the surveillance of Black freedom activists through the Police Department’s 
Bureau of Special Services and Investigation (BOSSI) records, to the origins of New 
York’s nineteenth-century Cuban community and the pioneering photography of 
George Bradford Brainerd. By connecting archival collections with original scholarship 
and personal narratives, the Lunch & Learn Series demonstrates how historical 
records continue to deepen public understanding of the people, movements, and 
events that have shaped New York City.  
The Department further expanded public engagement by offering guided tours 
of NYC’s Story: The City on Record, the Industry City records storage facility, and 
the historic lobby at 31 Chambers Street to community organizations and through 
partnerships such as Jane’s Walk. In May 2026, the Department published a new 
online curriculum resource aligned with New York State learning standards for 
students in grades 8–12 titled The Mayor’s Commission Report: Inside 1930s Harlem. 
The curriculum examines a 1936 report prepared by the Mayor’s Commission 
investigating conditions in Harlem and the causes of the 1935 Harlem riot inviting 
students to examine how the Commission’s findings reveal racial discrimination in 
Harlem, New York City, and beyond. The report has since become an important 
resource in academic, community, and policy discussions about race, inequality, 
and urban history.    
The Department continues to share knowledge of the histories and cultures of 
the City’s extraordinarily diverse population as reflected in the collections of the 
Municipal Archives and Municipal Library.
<<<PAGE 456>>>
Page 444  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Preserve and provide access to historical and contemporary New York City government records. 
Goal 1a Increase the volume and availability of historical and contemporary New York City government records.
Goal 1b Promptly reply to information and reproduction service requests.
Goal 1c Ensure historical records are preserved according to archival standards.
SERVICE 2 Provide City agencies, non-federal courts and district attorneys with record storage, retrieval 
and record management services.
Goal 2a Retrieve records promptly from off-site facilities upon record owner’s request.
Goal 2b Promptly transfer eligible agency records to off-site storage.
Goal 2c Dispose of all records according to their scheduled retention period.
<<<PAGE 457>>>
DEPARTMENT OF RECORDS & INFORMATION SERVICES  |  Page 445
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Preserve and provide access to historical and contemporary New York City government 
records. 
Goal 1a Increase the volume and availability of historical and contemporary New York City government records.
The Municipal Library acquired 20,180 digital publications during Fiscal 2026, an increase of 125 percent from the 8,961 
items added in Fiscal 2025. The greater volume is attributable to digitized copies of the City Record dated from 1899 to 
1943 that have been added to the Government Publications Portal. A non-government entity digitized the periodical and 
provided copies of the digital files to the Department for publication in the Portal. 
In Fiscal 2026, the Municipal Archives accessioned 32 terabytes of records in electronic format, a substantial increase over 
the zero terabytes accessioned in Fiscal 2025. They comprise records from the Office of former Mayor Bill de Blasio, spanning 
2014 to 2021. Although the volume of hard-copy records accessioned by the Archives in Fiscal 2026 decreased 35 percent 
to 1,063 cubic feet compared to 1,624 cubic feet acquired in Fiscal 2025, the quantity is still substantially greater than 
the volume added in Fiscals 2022, 2023 and 2024 which averaged about 240 cubic feet. The records accessioned in 2026 
included a significant series of historical photographs from the Department of Parks and Recreation. 
The Department’s digital laboratory digitized 159,718 items in Fiscal 2026, compared to 457,846 in Fiscal 2025, a decrease 
of 65 percent. The diminished volume is attributable to the lack of staff resources. Among the records scanned, a major 
project was the digitization of 145,000 marriage licenses, 5,900 on-demand items, and 48,000 programmatic collections, 
including collections that have been published online for public use, such as the NYC Commission on Human Rights 
Collection, Tax Assessments from Brooklyn, Queens, Bronx, Staten Island 1937, Murder Inc. Investigation, and Bronx 
marriage licenses (1938–1948).
The Department published two Resource Records in Fiscal 2026, compared to 14 in Fiscal 2025. Resource Records provide 
the public with detailed information about Municipal Archives collections. Production of Resource Records is a labor-intensive 
task and has been temporarily paused due to the lack of staff resources. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Municipal library items available 394,542 397,272 402,615 411,576 427,667 * * Neutral Up
Municipal Archives resource records NA 5 5 14 2 * * NA Up
Publications and reports acquired 5,353 4,677 5,497 8,961 20,180 * * Up Up
Required agency reports submitted to the Municipal Library publica -
tions portal (%) 67% 54% 62% 62% 63% 80% 80% Neutral Up
Records accessioned by Municipal Archives (cubic ft.) 330 280 117 1,624 1,063 * * Up Up
Digital archival records accessioned (terabytes) 44.5100 0.1000 0.0000 0.0000 32.0000 * * Down Up
 Records digitized 187,329 126,505 103,499 457,846 159,718 ñ ñ Up Up
Attendees at DORIS public programs 2,088 1,803 1,687 3,144 3,646 * * Up Up
Visits made to agency walk-in facilities 1,333 1,653 2,036 2,158 2,493 * * Up *
Unique visitors to agency website and related online platforms (000) 745.63 824.28 692.88 1,216.74 1,146.27 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 458>>>
Page 446  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1b Promptly reply to information and reproduction service requests.
The average time to respond to requests for copies of vital records 
improved by 3 days to 9.6 days in Fiscal 2026, down from 12.9 days 
during Fiscal 2025. Similarly, the percentage of vital record requests 
responded to within 12 business days improved 11 percentage points 
in Fiscal 2026 to 85 percent, compared to 74 percent in Fiscal 2025. 
The improved performance is due to re-assignment of staff from 
photo reproductions to vital record processing. It is also attributed 
to a continuing decrease in the volume of vital record copy requests 
submitted by the public. In Fiscal 2026 the volume of requests decreased 
29 percent to 11,896, from 16,817 in Fiscal 2025. The staff reassignment 
also resulted in the average processing time for photograph production 
requests to slow from 4.4 days to 6.1 days in Fiscal 2026. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Vital record requests received 25,358 13,489 13,649 16,817 11,896 * * Down *
 Average response time to vital record requests (days) 24.8 10.7 6.9 12.9 9.6 10.0 10.0 Down Down
 Vital record requests responded to within 12 business days (%) 46% 77% 91% 74% 85% 75% 75% Up Up
Photographic reproduction requests received 3,238 1,746 1,988 1,193 1,170 * * Down Up
 Average response time to historical photo requests (days) 5.4 5.4 2.0 4.4 6.1 12.0 12.0 Neutral Down
Information requests received 37,971 29,891 31,130 34,636 28,961 * * Down Up
Municipal Archives and Municipal Library patron services (hours) 1,778 2,208 2,217 2,186 2,588 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1c Ensure historical records are preserved according to archival standards.
The 11,298 preservation actions performed in Fiscal 2026 represent a slight decrease from the 12,497 actions completed in 
Fiscal 2025. Procurement challenges prevented completion of a grant-funded conservation project. Conservators continued 
preserving Manhattan building plans and records of towns and villages in Brooklyn and Queens dating from the 1600s to 
1900.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Preservation actions performed 8,145 20,262 17,151 12,497 11,298 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Vital Records Requests Received
Average Response Time (days)
FY 26FY 25FY 24FY 23FY 22
Vital Records Requests and Time to Respond
13,489
13,649
9.6
11,896
10.7
6.911.5
25,358
24.8
12.9
16,817
<<<PAGE 459>>>
DEPARTMENT OF RECORDS & INFORMATION SERVICES  |  Page 447
SERVICE 2 Provide City agencies, non-federal courts and district attorneys with record storage, retrieval 
and record management services.
Goal 2a Retrieve records promptly from off-site facilities upon record owner’s request.
The Department’s retrieval rate for records from the off-site facilities upon owner-agency request, and the proportion of 
requests for stored records processed within 48 hours remained fairly consistent at 1.6 days and 83 percent, respectively, 
in Fiscal 2026, compared to 1.5 days and 80 percent in Fiscal 2025.
The total quantity of records disposed by City government entities increased significantly from 74,968 cubic feet in Fiscal 
2025, to 99,510 cubic feet in Fiscal 2026. The 33 percent volume increase is due to the Department’s continuing efforts 
to streamline the disposal process. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average response time to agency requests for inactive records 
(days) 1.0 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.6 2.0 2.0 Up Down
Requests for stored records processed within 48 hours (%) 92% 96% 85% 80% 83% * * Down Up
Agencies managing records in electronic format using the Electronic 
Records Management System (cumulative) NA 32 32 30 31 * * NA Up
Records disposed by City government entities (cubic ft.) 6,563 10,720 10,237 74,968 99,510 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Promptly transfer eligible agency records to off-site storage.
During Fiscal 2026, the quantity of records transferred into the Municipal Records Center increased over 300 percent to 
3,079 cubic feet compared to 706 cubic feet in Fiscal 2025. The Records Center had reduced transfers during Fiscal 2024 
and 2025 in anticipation of planned alterations to the facility. They resumed record intakes during Fiscal 2026 when it 
became clear that the alteration project would not start in the near future.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Records transferred into Municipal Records Center (cubic ft. ) 7,820 4,624 5,634 706 3,079 * * Down Up
 Storage capacity available for new accessions in Municipal 
Records Center (%) 19% 19% 19% 21% 21% * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2c Dispose of all records according to their scheduled retention period.
The average time between records disposal eligibility and application to the Law Department rose slightly, from 0.6 months 
in Fiscal 2025 to 0.8 months in Fiscal 2026. Despite the increase, this timeframe is still below the two-month target. The 
average time for the Law Department to approve records disposal applications remained consistent at 2.0 months, as did 
the volume of records disposed by DORIS from the Municipal Records Center and other storage sites. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Average time between records disposal eligibility and application 
sent to Law Department (months) 0.2 0.7 1.3 0.6 0.8 2.0 2.0 Up Down
 Average time for Law Department to approve records disposal 
application (months) NA 1.3 3.7 2.1 2.0 3.0 3.0 NA Down
Records disposed by DORIS from Municipal Records Center and its 
other storage sites (cubic ft.) 3,540 4,322 19,430 14,036 14,036 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 460>>>
Page 448  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
CORE facility rating 100 100 100 100 100 * * Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $12.4 $14.2 $13.5 $14.5 $16.5 $16.1 $17.1 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $0.7 $0.6 $0.7 $0.7 $0.6 $0.9 $0.9 Neutral
Personnel 58 58 58 58 55 53 52 Down
Overtime paid ($000) $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 $0 Neutral
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals. 
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
        100 - Personal Services $5.0 $5.4 All
        200 - Other Than Personal Services $9.5 $11.1 All
Agency Total $14.5 $16.5 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.   2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of chapter. 
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Shawn(ta) Smith-Cruz was appointed Commissioner of the Department of Records and Information Services in May 
2026.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/records.
<<<PAGE 461>>>
DEPARTMENT OF  
FINANCE Richard Lee, Commissioner
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE  |  Page 449
WHAT WE DO
The Department of Finance (DOF) 
is responsible for the collection of 
approximately $56 billion in revenue 
annually for the City and the valuation 
of over one million properties worth a 
total of more than $1.6 trillion in Fiscal 
2026. DOF administers property tax 
exemption and abatement programs, 
collects City business and excise taxes, 
adjudicates parking and camera 
violations, records property-related 
documents, administers the City’s bank 
accounts, and assists New Yorkers with 
tax payment issues through the Office 
of the Taxpayer Advocate. 
Through the Office of the Sheriff, DOF 
enforces court mandates and orders, 
warrants of arrest, property seizures, 
and a wide variety of New York State 
and City civil enforcement mandates. 
The Sheriff’s Office investigates deed 
fraud, combats the trafficking of 
illegal and untaxed tobacco products, 
and enforces against illegal cannabis 
retail stores. 
Through the Mayor’s Office of Pensions 
and Investments, DOF advises the 
administration on the management 
of the City’s five pension systems. 
Additionally, the City announced the 
creation of the Mayor’s Office of Deed 
Theft Prevention in April of 2026. This 
office, housed within DOF, will work 
alongside partner agencies and entities 
to reach homeowners who have been 
or are at risk of being victimized by 
deed theft. 
DOF continuously strives to provide 
exceptional customer service, and 
the Agency has implemented many 
programs and initiatives to improve the 
customer’s experience and ensure that 
New Yorkers have the opportunity to 
receive all DOF-administered benefits 
and savings for which they are eligible.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
DOF’s programs and benefits touch the lives of seniors, people with disabilities, 
veterans, people with low or no English language proficiency, low-income 
households, and other vulnerable constituencies. DOF is committed to ensuring 
that eligible individuals and families can access the benefits to which they are 
entitled. The Agency is committed to enforcing the tax codes justly so that all New 
Yorkers pay their fair share. 
DOF programs that promote equity include those that help New Yorkers remain 
in their homes and in their communities. These include the Rent Freeze Program, 
including the Senior Citizen Rent Increase Exemption (SCRIE) and the Disability Rent 
Increase Exemption (DRIE), which protects New Yorkers from rent increases. It also 
includes property tax exemptions like the Senior Citizen Homeowners’ Exemption 
(SCHE) and the Disabled Homeowners’ Exemption (DHE), which help homeowners 
remain in their homes by reducing their property taxes. DOF also offers veterans, 
clergy, and other property tax exemptions. 
The Agency’s Office of the Taxpayer Advocate (OTA) and the Office of the 
Parking Summons Advocate (OPSA) help New York City taxpayers with limited 
resources resolve challenging and potentially costly tax or parking and camera 
violation issues with the City. Each year, OTA reviews DOF’s operations and 
makes recommendations to help more New Yorkers get the services and 
resources they need. 
The newly formed Mayor’s Office of Deed Theft Prevention is working with City, 
State, and law enforcement partners to assist those impacted by deed theft or 
fraud. The office also aims to close loopholes in communication, processes, and 
legislative frameworks to reduce instances of deed theft in the future. 
DOF is committed to making it as convenient as possible for customers to interact 
with the Agency. Over the past several years, DOF has introduced new programs 
and payment options to ensure that customers get clear and accurate information 
as well as prompt and professional service. While most DOF transactions can be 
conducted online, the Agency provides options for customers to access DOF’s 
services in the manner they prefer. DOF’s five borough-based business centers 
provide residents and businesses with an in-person option to make payments, 
apply for benefits, or receive general assistance.
<<<PAGE 462>>>
Page 450  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Bill and collect property and other taxes. 
Goal 1a Increase the proportion of individuals and businesses that are in compliance with tax and revenue laws. 
Goal 1b Promptly review requests for refunds. 
SERVICE 2 Bill, adjudicate and collect on parking violations.
Goal 2a Increase the proportion of parking and camera violation summonses that are resolved. 
Goal 2b Assure that all respondents are offered convenient options for paying and challenging violations.
SERVICE 3 Administer rent and property owner exemption programs. 
Goal 3a Promptly review applications for exemption programs. 
SERVICE 4 Help NYC taxpayers resolve tax issues.
Goal 4a Through the Office of the Taxpayer Advocate, promptly address inquiries and resolve cases. 
SERVICE 5 Record property-related documents. 
Goal 5a Increase the percentage of online property recording transactions. 
SERVICE 6 Serve and execute legal processes and mandates. 
Goal 6a Increase the proportion of judgments, orders and warrants that are successfully served/executed.
<<<PAGE 463>>>
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE  |  Page 451
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Bill and collect property and other taxes.
Goal 1a Increase the proportion of individuals and businesses that are in compliance with tax and revenue laws.
In Fiscal 2026, the average completion time for field audits was three percent faster, decreasing to 493 days from 510 days 
in Fiscal 2025. DOF hired a significant number of both early-career and experienced auditors at the beginning of Fiscal 2026 
and assigned the more experienced auditors to work on field audits. The new auditors were able to complete a significant 
number of incoming and backlogged cases, which reduced the turnaround time on field audits. The faster turnaround 
time for field audits directly contributed to the increase in tax liability from field audits to 34.6 percent. Because cases were 
closed more quickly, DOF was able to take on higher-complexity audits.
The average turnaround time for non-field audits was 192 days in Fiscal 2026, two days faster than in Fiscal 2025. However, 
the increase in tax liability as a result of non-field audits dropped by about 12 percentage points, from 43.5 percent in Fiscal 
2025 to 31.6 percent in Fiscal 2026. This decrease was primarily due to more cases being assigned to less experienced, 
early-career auditors, as well as a larger share of lower-complexity audits, which generally result in lower tax liability. DOF 
is working to improve auditing efficacy through retention and experience-building efforts aimed at new auditors. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Property taxes billed that are paid (%) 98.1% 97.8% 97.7% 98.0% 97.8% 98.0% 98.0% Neutral Up
– Paid on time (%) 94.9% 94.7% 94.4% 94.4% 94.4% * * Neutral Up
Average turnaround time for field audits (days) 452 528 519 510 493 * * Neutral Down
Average turnaround time for non-field audits (days) 230 197 190 194 192 * * Down Down
Average amount collected from a closed audit ($000) $87 $133 $113 $112 $119 * * Up *
Increase in tax liability as a result of audits (%) 29.4% 25.3% 29.1% 29.5% 34.2% * * Up Up
Increase in tax liability as a result of field audits (%) 28.0% 24.9% 27.8% 28.3% 34.6% * * Up Up
Increase in tax liability as a result of non-field audits (%) 43.0% 33.2% 47.9% 43.5% 31.6% * * Down Up
Originally noticed properties sold in lien sale (%) 25% NA NA 15% NA * * NA Down
Properties in final lien sale 2,841 NA NA 4,545 NA * * NA Down
 Field audits closed within a year (%) 51.4% 51.3% 57.0% 60.0% 56.0% * * Up *
 Non-Field audits closed within a year (%) 83.7% 87.6% 87.0% 91.0% 92.0% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Promptly review requests for refunds.
In Fiscal 2026, the average time to process requested business tax refunds was 8 days, down from 12 days in Fiscal 2025, 
while the average time to process non-requested business refunds remained steady at 12 days. DOF saw a significant 
improvement in property refund processing time, as average processing time dropped from 35 days to 25 days. This 
28-percent decrease was a result of new fraud safeguards being better integrated into normal processing. Operational 
enhancements such as streamlined workflows, encouraging electronic payments, and continuous training have contributed 
to faster processing times and improved customer service.  
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Property tax refunds and adjustments processed 26,037 21,939 20,172 10,031 10,065 * * Down *
Business tax refunds processed 60,544 60,660 62,122 61,969 60,117 * * Neutral *
 Average time to issue a property tax refund (days) 13 13 25 35 25 20 20 Up Down
 Average time to issue a business tax refund (requested or non-
requested) (days) 12 12 11 12 11 25 25 Down Down
Average time to issue a requested business tax refund (days) 12 12 12 12 8 17 17 Down Down
 Average time to issue a non-requested business tax refund (days) 14 12 12 12 12 17 17 Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 464>>>
Page 452  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 2 Bill, adjudicate and collect on parking violations.
Goal 2a Increase the proportion of parking and camera violation summonses that are resolved.
In Fiscal 2026, about 15.7 million parking summonses were received, five percent fewer than Fiscal 2025’s approximately 
16.6 million. This year’s volume falls slightly below the five-year average of approximately 16.2 million summonses received 
annually since Fiscal 2022, reflecting typical year-to-year fluctuation rather than a sustained trend in either direction. 
Summons volume has ranged from a low of roughly 15.4 million in Fiscal 2022 to a high of about 17.3 million in Fiscal 
2023, with Fiscal 2026 landing within that established range.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Parking and camera summonses received (000) 15,437 17,314 16,101 16,559 15,692 * * Neutral *
Parking and camera summonses resolved within 90 days (000) 10,767 12,470 11,748 12,079 NA * * NA *
 Parking and camera summonses paid within 90 days (%) 66.2% 69.0% 69.0% 69.6% NA 65.0% 65.0% NA Up
Parking and camera summonses dismissed within 90 days (%) 3.3% 3.4% 3.7% 2.9% NA * * NA Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Assure that all respondents are offered convenient options for paying and challenging violations.
DOF’s Adjudication Division continues to fulfill its mission by providing fair, consistent, and efficient hearings. In Fiscal 
2026, the division adjudicated approximately 2.1 million summonses, a nearly three percent increase from Fiscal 2025. 
In-person hearings decreased by 13 percent and hearings by mail decreased by 15 percent, while hearings by web rose 
four percent, reflecting a continued shift toward online services. These changes, along with operational improvements 
and the experience of trained administrative law judges, reduced average wait times for live hearings in the business 
centers from 11.2 minutes to 7.3 minutes. Turnaround times for online parking hearings also improved, decreasing from 
approximately five days to approximately four days.
In Fiscal 2026, the division also automated the appeals intake process, improving processing efficiency for DOF staff, who 
had previously had to manually process appeals applications, including conducting necessary research. As a result of this, 
as well as an increase in commercial appeals submitted by brokers, administrative law judges adjudicated approximately 
81 percent more appeals hearings than in the prior year.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Parking summonses adjudicated (000) 1,959 2,247 2,004 2,087 2,145 * * Neutral *
 Parking summons hearings 1,047,121 1,277,636 1,014,990 1,070,881 1,049,250 * * Neutral *
– In-person hearings 205,862 341,533 210,624 222,060 193,311 * * Down *
– Hearings-by-mail 206,256 190,708 138,999 134,075 114,411 * * Down *
– Web hearings 635,003 745,395 665,367 714,746 741,530 * * Up *
Parking summons “Pay or Dispute” app transactions 2,037,385 2,524,746 2,489,701 2,646,336 2,746,650 * * Up *
 Average turnaround time for in-person parking summons 
hearings (minutes) 1.3 3.3 5.3 11.2 7.3 12.0 12.0 Up Down
 Average turnaround time to issue decision for parking 
summons hearing-by-web (days) 4.0 5.9 4.2 5.0 3.9 8.5 8.5 Neutral Down
 Average turnaround time to issue decision for parking 
summons hearing-by-mail (days) 6.9 7.8 6.6 6.7 6.8 14.0 14.0 Neutral Down
Parking summons appeals reviewed 30,073 54,671 130,576 132,758 240,342 * * Up *
Parking summons appeals granted a reversal (%) 23.0% 11.0% 7.0% 6.0% 5.0% * * Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 465>>>
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE  |  Page 453
SERVICE 3 Administer rent and property owner exemption programs.
Goal 3a Promptly review applications for exemption programs.
In Fiscal 2026, the Property Exemption Administration (PEA) experienced an increase in cycle time for Rent Freeze and 
homeowners’ exemption applications. The Senior and Disabled Programs Unit, which administers these benefits, had critical 
vacancies in Fiscal 2026, including the director and senior director positions, which are in the process of being filled. In 
addition, during the approximately seven-week annual window when nearly all staff are assigned to exemption application 
processing ahead of the March 15 deadline, the staff was simultaneously working to address a backlog of applications 
previously placed on hold due to missing information. Still, 95 percent of applications were completed before DOF issued 
the first quarter property tax bills for Fiscal 2027.
In most years, this busy season has a small impact on Rent Freeze application processing times, but the impact was more 
pronounced this year. The effect was most noticeable for initial applications: initial SCRIE processing time rose from 12.2 
to 31.2 days, initial DRIE processing time rose from 12.7 to 33.8 days, and initial SCHE processing time rose from 3.5 to 
8.4 days. Renewal processing times also increased across most programs, most notably for DHE renewals, which rose from 
3.2 to 12.1 days, and for SCRIE and DRIE renewals, which rose to 15.1 and 14.5 days, respectively. DHE initial applications 
and SCHE renewals saw comparatively modest increases. 
Another factor that affected processing times was the high level of incomplete SCRIE and DRIE applications. These 
incomplete applications are not factored into the average processing cycle time, but every incomplete application requires 
multiple comprehensive reviews (initial review, renewal review, and review of additional documentation submitted), which 
increases staff workload. PEA continues to leverage existing technology and explore new technology to automate processing. 
Automation will reduce staffing challenges and improve cycle times.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Initial applications received — Senior Citizen Rent Increase Exemp -
tion 5,024 7,154 7,823 7,266 5,219 * * Neutral *
 Average time to process initial Senior Citizen Rent Increase 
Exemption applications (days) 11.1 25.8 16.2 12.2 31.2 10.0 10.0 Up Down
Renewal applications received — Senior Citizen Rent Increase 
Exemption 32,064 22,959 26,380 23,402 25,308 * * Down *
 Average time to process Senior Citizen Rent Increase Exemption 
renewal applications (days) 10.2 25.3 9.0 9.4 15.1 10.0 10.0 Down Down
Initial applications received — Disability Rent Increase Exemption 1,031 1,472 1,648 1,606 1,132 * * Up *
 Average time to process initial Disability Rent Increase Exemption 
applications (days) 10.0 22.7 15.6 12.7 33.8 10.0 10.0 Up Down
Renewal applications received —  Disability Rent Increase Exemption 7,464 5,810 6,238 5,622 5,975 * * Down *
 Average time to process Disability Rent Increase Exemption 
renewal applications (days) 9.8 22.4 8.3 8.5 14.5 10.0 10.0 Down Down
Initial applications received — Senior Citizen Homeowners’ Exemp -
tion 6,094 7,312 8,433 7,241 6,743 * * Neutral *
 Average time to process initial Senior Citizen Homeowners’ 
Exemption applications (days) 10.3 14.5 21.6 3.5 8.4 ò ò Down Down
Renewal applications received — Senior Citizen Homeowners’ 
Exemption 12,759 33,141 13,117 22,579 19,986 * * Neutral *
 Average time to process  Senior Citizen Homeowners’ Exemption 
renewal applications (days) 8.5 19.3 25.2 5.5 6.3 ò ò Down Down
Initial applications received — Disability Homeowners’ Exemption 603 728 321 300 542 * * Down *
 Average time to process initial Disability Homeowners’ Exemp -
tion applications (days) 5.9 10.0 27.0 4.9 5.3 ò ò Down Down
Renewal applications received — Disability Homeowners’ Exemp -
tion 2,242 2,997 2,223 1,966 2,048 * * Down *
 Average time to process Disability Homeowners’ Exemption 
renewal applications (days) 8.6 12.8 13.9 3.2 12.1 ò ò Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 466>>>
Page 454  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 4 Help NYC taxpayers resolve tax issues.
Goal 4a Through the Office of the Taxpayer Advocate, promptly address inquiries and resolve cases.
The Office of the Taxpayer Advocate (OTA) continues to support customers who are unable to resolve their issues through 
standard DOF channels. Inquiries received by OTA declined 16 percent in Fiscal 2026, from 1,608 in Fiscal 2025 to 1,343 
in Fiscal 2026, while OTA opened 883 cases, about 13 percent fewer than the 1,013 cases opened in Fiscal 2025, due in 
part to receiving fewer inquiries that fiscal year. OTA experienced a surge in both inquiry and case volumes in Fiscal 2025 
due to the tax lien sale. Average case resolution time increased 37.2 percent, from 36.7 to 50.4 days, exceeding the 45-day 
target. This increase is due to carryover cases from the previous report year, mostly stemming from the first citywide property 
tax lien outreach and sale in more than three years; such cases tend to be complicated, multifaceted, and time intensive. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Inquiries received 1,177 1,201 1,231 1,608 1,343 * * Up *
 Average time to address inquiries (days) 1.9 5.9 8.5 4.1 5.0 10.0 10.0 Up Down
Cases opened 706 1,045 1,045 1,013 883 * * Up *
Cases closed 774 1,073 1,090 1,091 1,054 * * Up *
 Average time to close a case (days) 48.6 33.0 41.5 36.7 50.4 45.0 45.0 Neutral Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 5 Record property-related documents.
Goal 5a Increase the percentage of online property recording transactions. 
As a result of a significant increase in document submissions, driven by a surge in commercial real estate transactions in New 
York City, the average time required to record property documents increased from 1.2 days in Fiscal 2025 to 1.4 days in Fiscal 
2026, but remains under two days and well below levels recorded in past years. Despite this year’s uptick, processing time 
has trended down over the last five years. This increase in processing time came even as the share of property recording 
transactions conducted online continued to rise, reaching 88.4 percent in Fiscal 2026, up from 87.4 percent in Fiscal 2025.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Property recording transactions online (%) 86.0% 83.9% 86.8% 87.4% 88.4% * * Neutral Up
 Average time to record and index property documents citywide 
(days) 4.5 1.3 1.1 1.2 1.4 ò ò Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 6 Serve and execute legal processes and mandates.
Goal 6a Increase the proportion of judgments, orders and warrants that are successfully served/executed.
From June 2025 to June 2026, the Sheriff’s Office experienced a 29 percentage point decrease in property seizure orders 
successfully executed and a five percentage point decrease in arrest warrants successfully executed. During the same 
period, orders of protection successfully served increased by 11 percentage points, and child support orders successfully 
served increased by 11 percentage points. 
The decreases in property seizure orders and arrest warrants may be attributed to a significant increase in overall 
workload that affected the timely execution of court orders. These circumstances may have hindered efforts to locate 
assets, account for changes in ownership, or execute orders when the information provided to the Sheriff’s Office by 
judgment creditors was incomplete or inaccurate. 
<<<PAGE 467>>>
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE  |  Page 455
The increases in orders of protection and child support orders successfully served reflect stronger performance by deputies 
in those areas. The Sheriff’s Office continues to adapt to evolving operational demands by implementing more efficient 
strategies and enforcement practices to effectively meet changing public safety needs.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Arrest warrants successfully executed (%) 79% 65% 59% 57% 52% * * Down Up
 Orders of protection successfully served (%) 61% 58% 56% 53% 64% ñ ñ Neutral Up
Property seizure orders successfully executed (%) 50% 51% 49% 67% 38% * * Neutral Up
 Child support orders successfully served (%) 59% 56% 56% 50% 61% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Total revenue collected ($000,000) $45,341 $47,768 $49,120 $52,432 $54,754 * * Up *
– Property taxes collected ($000,000) $29,622 $31,502 $32,820 $34,607 $35,500 * * Up *
– Business taxes collected ($000,000) $9,800 $10,494 $11,383 $12,665 $13,400 * * Up *
– Property transfer taxes collected ($000,000) $3,238 $2,175 $1,723 $2,027 $2,528 * * Down *
– Parking summons revenue ($000,000) $847 $1,118 $998 $1,010 $1,027 * * Up *
– Audit and enforcement revenue collected ($000,000) $871 $1,337 $947 $900 $1,220 * * Up *
– Other revenue ($000,000) $962 $1,142 $1,250 $1,223 $1,579 * * Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 81% 60% 51% 56% 63% 85% 85% Down Up
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 75% 56% 68% 77% 82% 85% 85% Up Up
Completed requests for interpretation 3,189 6,031 7,555 7,277 10,853 * * Up *
Average customer in-person wait time (minutes) 3 21 14 15 10 12 12 Up Down
Calls answered by a Collections customer service representative (%) 66% 30% 32% 23% 34% * * Down Up
CORE facility rating 98 97 100 93 98 90 90 Neutral Up
Number of calls answered by the Customer Contact Center 52,315 73,552 52,711 33,193 39,557 * * Down *
Average time to complete calls to the Customer Contact Center 
(minutes:seconds) 11:35 10:59 10:47 10:11 13:13 * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 468>>>
Page 456  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $301.2 $332.1 $341.8 $351.5 $375.4 $387.6 $380.6 Up
Revenues ($000,000) $1,064.0 $1,298.6 $1,179.1 $1,219.8 $1,256.7 $1,148.9 $1,176.4 Up
Personnel 1,725 1,691 1,709 1,760 1,794 2,066 2,078 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000) $7,424 $8,552 $7,920 $8,262 $1,994 $1,803 $1,803 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $175.1 $186.0 
        001 - Administration and Planning $51.4 $52.5 All
        002 - Operations $22.6 $23.6 1b, 3a
        003 - Property $30.2 $32.3 1a, 1b, 5a
        004 - Audit $30.6 $34.7 1a, 1b
        005 - Legal $6.3 $7.0 1a, 1b, 2a
        007 - Parking Violations Bureau $9.4 $10.5 2a, 2b
        009 - City Sheriff $24.6 $25.4 1a, 2a, 6a
Other Than Personal Services - Total $176.4 $189.5 
        011 - Administration $100.3 $101.8 All
        022 - Operations $41.4 $46.1 1b, 3a
        033 - Property $4.6 $5.2 1a, 1b, 5a
        044 - Audit $0.3 $0.4 1a, 1b
        055 - Legal $0.2 $0.2 1a, 1b, 2a
        077 - Parking Violations Bureau $0.8 $1.9 2a, 2b
        099 - City Sheriff $28.8 $33.9 1a, 2a, 6a
Agency Total $351.5 $375.4 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.  
<<<PAGE 469>>>
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE  |  Page 457
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Richard Lee was appointed as Commissioner of the Department of Finance in March 2026.
• In Goal 1a, the indicator ‘Paid on time (%)’ was updated from 94.6 to 94.4 for Fiscal 2025 to reflect finalized data.
• In Goal 1a, the indicators ‘Originally noticed properties sold in lien sale (%)’ and ‘Properties in final lien sale (%)’ were 
NA as the lien sale was paused in Fiscal 2026. 
• Service 2 was updated from ‘Bill, adjudicate and collect on parking summonses’ to ‘Bill, adjudicate and collect on 
parking violations.’
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information on items referenced in the narrative, go to:
• NYC Rent Freeze Program (Senior Citizen Rent Increase Exemption and Disability Rent Increase Exemption): 
www.nyc.gov/rentfreeze
• Senior Citizen Homeowners’ Exemption: 
www.nyc.gov/sche
• Disabled Homeowners’ Exemption:  
www.nyc.gov/dhe
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/dof.
<<<PAGE 470>>>
Page 458  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 471>>>
OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION  |  Page 459
OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY  
AND INNOVATION
Lisa Gelobter, Chief Technology Officer and Commissioner
WHAT WE DO
The Office of Technology and 
Innovation (OTI) leads New York 
City’s digital transformation by 
setting citywide technology and 
privacy policies, building and 
operating shared platforms, and 
delivering essential services that 
democratize access to technology 
and data. OTI helps New York City 
deliver better and more equitable 
services, make smarter decisions, and 
build a more effective, accountable, 
and resilient government through 
technology.
OTI enables agencies across City 
government to use technology 
effectively, lawfully, and responsibly 
to achieve their missions—supported 
by digital products, infrastructure, 
data systems, and shared expertise. 
Through NYC 311, Open Data, 
and other platforms, OTI provides 
inclusive, transparent access to 
information and government services 
for all New Yorkers.
OTI also collaborates with industry, 
academic, and civic partners to 
strengthen New York City’s position 
as a global innovation leader and 
ensure technology deployments 
across government create a safer and 
more equitable city. OTI advances 
this work by setting citywide privacy 
standards, training employees, and 
ensuring responsible data practices 
across agencies.
FOCUS ON EQUITY
OTI is committed to making technology more equitable, accessible and affordable 
for New York City families, students, older adults, job seekers and business owners. 
In April 2026, OTI expanded digital equity efforts through the launch of the “Get 
Online NYC” campaign. This effort featured a new website, logo, and promotional 
materials designed to make it easier for New Yorkers to find free digital resources 
at more than 450 locations across the City. “Get Online NYC” materials included 
downloadable flyers that will be produced in various languages, a computer center 
directory, and a resource survey, all of which are available at nyc.gov/getonline. 
OTI’s efforts to bridge the digital divide focuses on four key areas: access to the 
internet, access to computer devices, digital skills training, and building capacity 
among City agencies. 
Also in Fiscal 2026, the City launched the first-of-its-kind child care website and 
interactive map at nyc.gov/childcare. This application helps families find and 
compare child care options across all five boroughs. It includes a personalized 
questionnaire to match families with the right programs. The site allows users 
to filter by location (boroughs using a single platform), age group and cost, 
and provides key details about providers, including services offered, eligibility 
requirements and contact information. The new tool advances the commitment 
to universal, accessible child care. 
Finally, in June 2026 OTI funded and internally launched the creation of New 
York City’s Public Interest Technology (PIT) Crew, with a public announcement in 
July. This new team will rapidly build public facing digital solutions, products, and 
services needed to help residents access services more easily. OTI will deploy five 
PIT Crews citywide including one with support from The Rockefeller Foundation 
through the Mayor’s Fund to Advance New York City. The first PIT Crew will build 
an online complaint portal to enforce nation’s first “Click to Cancel” protections, 
helping New Yorkers resolve issues more efficiently.
<<<PAGE 472>>>
Page 460  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
OUR SERVICES AND GOALS
SERVICE 1 Deliver City IT services including hardware, software and technical support.
Goal 1a Provide quality service delivery and performance monitoring for OTI-managed systems.
Goal 1b Resolve all service disruptions within targeted levels.
Goal 1c Ensure all application development and IT infrastructure projects are delivered on time.
SERVICE 2 Support sharing and management of citywide data and information.
Goal 2a Increase the public’s use of City government information through NYC.gov.
Goal 2b Increase the amount of publicly available data.
SERVICE 3 Regulate franchised cable services.
Goal 3a Ensure customer complaints are resolved positively.
SERVICE 4 Regulate provisioning of public telecommunication services on City streets.
Goal 4a Maximize usefulness, operability and cleanliness of public telecommunication services on City streets.
SERVICE 5 Arrange for free, fast, and reliable internet access to NYCHA eligible residents.
Goal 5a Ensure widespread adoption of broadband across eligible NYCHA developments.
SERVICE 6 Accelerate and simplify the delivery of City services and modernize supporting technologies.
Goal 6a Establish and maintain an online portal for accessing all City services and benefits.
<<<PAGE 473>>>
OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION  |  Page 461
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
SERVICE 1 Deliver City IT services including hardware, software and technical support.
Goal 1a Provide quality service delivery and performance monitoring for OTI-managed systems.
In Fiscal 2026, OTI increased the total number of services it provides to 638, 38 more than were provided in Fiscal 2025. 
The total number of services OTI provides has grown 81 percent since Fiscal 2022.
OTI’s Public Safety and Emergency Management (PSEM) division, which is responsible for managing critical 911 infrastructure, 
experienced one outage lasting 110 minutes impacting Text-To-911 (TT911) calls in May 2026. This is only the second 
outage, interruption in calls contacting 911, since Fiscal 2019. During the May 2026 incident, NYC 911 encountered a 
problem processing text sessions from the public. Voice calls to NYC 911 were unaffected and 12 texters received bounce 
back messages notifying them that the TT911service was unavailable and to call 911. Immediately following the May 
2026, TT911 service interruption, OTI’s Public Safety Enterprise Management (PSEM) and partner vendors conducted a 
comprehensive review and implemented a series of corrective actions designed to prevent similar disruptions in the future.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Services OTI provides 352 531 534 600 638 ñ ñ Up Up
 Critical public safety outages 0 0 0 1 1 ò ò Up Down
 Total outage time for critical public safety infrastructure (minutes) 0 0 0 420 110 ò ò Up Down
 Major incidents that directly impact services that OTI provides 51 163 225 171 171 ò ò Up Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 1b Resolve all service disruptions within targeted levels.
Overall, there was an 11 percent decrease in the total number of incidents across all severity levels—critical, high, and medium/
low—in Fiscal 2026 compared to Fiscal 2025. The reduction in incidents can be attributed to staff improving the reliability of 
hardware and software while ensuring upgrades to cloud services were enacted and installed despite an increase in external 
requests by agencies. 
Critical and high severity incidents often require the most personnel resources to resolve. While the average resolution time 
for critical incidents remained steady at seven hours, the average resolution time for high incidents decreased considerably to 
31 hours, or 49 percent, in Fiscal 2026. In Fiscal 2025 it was discovered that some non-active high severity incidents remained 
open for extended periods of time, skewing the metric to 60 hours. This issue was addressed by the OTI business units in Fiscal 
2026 leading to this improvement. Time to resolve medium severity incidents reduced to 51 hours, the shortest resolution 
time since Fiscal 2022.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Incidents by severity level — Critical 61 163 171 146 153 ò ò Up Down
Incidents by severity level — High 564 818 684 401 381 * * Down Down
Incidents by severity level — Medium and Low 15,725 20,764 18,869 17,907 15,901 * * Neutral Down
 Average incident resolution time by SLA level (hours) — Critical 6 11 7 7 7 ò ò Neutral Down
Average incident resolution time by SLA level (hours) — High 24 27 23 60 31 * * Up Down
Average incident resolution time by SLA level (hours) — Medium 51 53 54 54 51 * * Neutral Down
Average incident resolution time by SLA level (hours) — Low 27 25 16 11 11 * * Down Down
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 474>>>
Page 462  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Goal 1c Ensure all application development and IT infrastructure projects are delivered on time.
The demand for Information Technology at City agencies is ever-increasing, OTI works to make the process of requesting 
and receiving services more efficient. In Fiscal 2026, the number of new service catalog submissions to support outside 
agencies increased by 16 percent compared to Fiscal 2025. The number of catalog items that City agency users can 
choose from when selecting a service, rose to 129 in Fiscal 2026, a 10 percent increase since Fiscal 2025 and a 93 percent 
increase since Fiscal 2021. Additional catalog items make it easier for City agency users to obtain the technology service 
they need and ensure these requests are directed efficiently to the correct OTI business unit. Despite the increase in 
demand for IT services by outside agencies, OTI improved service delivery time by one day. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 New service catalog submissions to support outside agencies 29,646 57,077 64,677 62,222 71,901 * * Up *
Catalog items 67 91 109 117 129 * * Up Up
Delivery time of services for external agencies (days) 8 17 13 18 17 * * Up Down
Customer satisfaction rate (%) NA 90.94% 92.18% 92.49% 93.62% 90.00% 90.00% NA Up
Customer survey completion rate NA 10% 9% 7% 7% * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 2 Support sharing and management of citywide data and information.
Goal 2a Increase the public’s use of City government information through NYC.gov.
The number of web page views on NYC.gov increased by 40 percent and the average number of monthly unique visitors 
increased by 27 percent in Fiscal 2026 when compared to Fiscal 2025. The primary reason for this rapid growth was the 
launch of a revamped NYC.gov website in August 2025. This redesigned infrastructure for NYC.gov serves 7 million users 
annually. It is 100% accessible, 50% faster, increased customer satisfaction by 13 points, and will scale to all city agencies 
to make it easier for New Yorkers to get what they need from city government.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
NYC.gov web page views (000) 296,892.7 274,770.7 281,120.5 276,976.1 387,776.3 * * Up Up
 NYC.gov unique visitors (average 
monthly) (000) 6,668 6,081 6,262 6,170 7,812 ñ ñ Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
Goal 2b Increase the amount of publicly available data.
During Fiscal 2026, OTI worked with City agencies to increase the volume and quality of public data sets and conducted 
significant public outreach with NYC Open Data users. As a result, although there was a modest three percent increase 
in rows of data available, there was a 107 percent increase in total dataset downloads, a 57 percent increase in website 
views, and a 119 percent increase in NYC.gov API Dataset Views when compared to Fiscal 2025. 
These increases stem, in part, from the efforts of OTI’s Office of Data Strategy. This team worked with more than 20 
government agencies striving to make public data more accessible, and government more transparent during the 10th 
Annual Open Data Week. Held in March and co-organized with BetaNYC and Data Through Design, Open Data Week is 
the City’s premier public data showcase, featuring more than 80 free or low-cost in-person and virtual events. 
<<<PAGE 475>>>
OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION  |  Page 463
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Rows of data available for download on NYC.
gov/OpenData (000) 4,136,674.0 4,586,343.5 5,703,296.5 6,206,470.0 6,412,981.0 * * Up Up
Datasets with data dictionaries on NYC.gov/
OpenData (%) 91.7% 91.9% 92.7% 93.8% 93.5% * * Neutral Up
NYC.gov/OpenData Dataset Downloads 1,621,870 1,526,703 2,999,769 5,657,778 11,691,221 * * Up Up
NYC.gov/OpenData Dataset Views (Website) 4,161,744 4,909,461 5,624,596 7,352,248 11,512,817 * * Up Up
NYC.gov/OpenData Dataset Views (API) (000) 892,155 613,414 989,342 897,539 1,963,699 * * Up Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 3 Regulate franchised cable services.
Goal 3a Ensure customer complaints are resolved positively.
The total number of video cable complaints decreased slightly compared to Fiscal 2025. Complaints have fallen 75 percent 
since Fiscal 2022, from 2,426 to 612. This decline may reflect several factors, including the continued decrease in cable 
television subscriptions and the increasing popularity of streaming services, as well as factors related to building conditions 
and cable infrastructure and weather-related service disruptions. OTI remains committed to addressing all complaints 
received promptly and appropriately. 
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Video cable complaints citywide 2,426 1,550 1,390 639 612 * * Down Down
 Video complaints resolved citywide (%) 91% 90% 96% 94% 100% ñ ñ Neutral Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 4 Regulate provisioning of public telecommunication services on City streets.
Goal 4a Maximize usefulness, operability, and cleanliness of public telecommunication services on City streets.
Through OTI’s collaboration with the franchisee, CityBridge, LinkNYC sidewalk digital kiosks provide the public with free 
high-speed Wi-Fi, nationwide phone calls, device charging, and access to City services and maps. During Fiscal 2026, 
cumulative subscribers to LinkNYC rose to 21.6 million, a 15 percent increase from Fiscal 2025. In Fiscal 2026, LinkNYC 
kiosks ran public service announcements with timely and relevant information, including notifications about cooling centers 
to beat the heat, the World Cup, America250, and the National Basketball Association champions, the New York Knicks.
OTI’s commitment to providing quality services is also demonstrated by the continued decline in summonses for unacceptable 
kiosk appearance, which has decreased for three consecutive fiscal years.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Cumulative number of LinkNYC subscribers 11,321,069 13,597,643 16,069,742 18,713,093 21,553,970 ñ ñ Up Up
Summonses issued for LinkNYC kiosks with inoper -
able phone service or unacceptable appearance 175 42 30 9 6 * * Down *
Revenue collected from LinkNYC Franchise Fees and 
liquidated damages ($000) $5,466.0 $5,892.0 $5,960.8 $6,438.0 $6,790.6 $4,500.0 $4,500.0 Up *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 476>>>
Page 464  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
SERVICE 5 Arrange for free, fast, and reliable internet access to NYCHA eligible residents.
Goal 5a Ensure widespread adoption of broadband across eligible NYCHA developments.
Big Apple Connect (BAC), the nation’s largest municipally subsidized broadband program, continued to expand. In Fiscal 
2026, the households served by Big Apple Connect were updated to reflect NYCHA’s active unit counts and adoption of 
BAC grew two percentage points to 83.4 percent of eligible households due to increased outreach from the providers, 
OTI, NYCHA, and other partners. All NYCHA developments have used the program since Fiscal 2024, and the total 
number of eligible households citywide reached 152,407 in Fiscal 2026.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Eligible households adopting Big Apple Connect services (%) NA 76.0% 80.1% 81.4% 83.4% ñ ñ NA Up
Households eligible for the Big Apple Connect program NA 136,374 152,401 152,401 152,407 * * NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
SERVICE 6 Accelerate and simplify the delivery of City services and modernize supporting technologies.
Goal 6a Establish and maintain an online portal for accessing all City services and benefits.
Child care applications submitted using MyCity decreased 16 percent in Fiscal 2026, to 58,799, following record growth 
after the platform’s Fiscal 2023 launch. Applications rose sharply from 8,624 in Fiscal 2023 to 69,856 in Fiscal 2025 before 
declining this year. OTI provides the technology platform for MyCity.
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
 Child care applications submitted using MyCity NA 8,624 41,586 69,856 58,799 ñ ñ NA Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY-WIDE MANAGEMENT
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Citywide IT professional services contracts in use by agencies (%) 52% 43% 40% 43% 35% * * Down *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY CUSTOMER SERVICE
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Customer Experience FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Letters responded to within 14 days (%) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral Up
E-mails responded to within 14 days (%) 99% 99% 94% 81% 85% * * Down Up
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
<<<PAGE 477>>>
OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION  |  Page 465
Performance Indicators Actual Target Trend
Response to 311 Service Requests (SRs) FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
SLA — Cable complaint — Cable TV video service (% of SRs meet -
ing time to action) 61% 73% 78% 67% 80% * * Up *
SLA — Cable complaint — Billing (% of SRs meeting time to action) 81% 68% 84% 60% 87% * * Neutral *
SLA — Cable complaint — Miscellaneous (% of SRs meeting time 
to action) 76% 65% 74% 58% 86% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $924.5 $897.4 $972.6 $922.3 $982.6 $967.2 $740.2 Neutral
Revenues ($000,000) $170.3 $155.1 $147.7 $138.0 $131.4 $131.3 $140.6 Down
Personnel 1,564 1,508 1,526 1,535 1,499 1,580 1,629 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000) $1,049 $1,352 $2,066 $2,493 $2,724 $324 $3,324 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Where possible, the relationship between an agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit 
of appropriation (UA), is shown in the ‘Applicable MMR Goals’ column. Each relationship is not necessarily exhaustive or 
exclusive. Any one goal may be connected to multiple UAs, and any UA may be connected to multiple goals.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000) Applicable MMR Goals 3
Personal Services - Total $173.7 $182.6 
        001 - Technology Services $84.6 $88.4 All
        003 - Admin/Operations $21.0 $21.5 All
        007 - 911 Technical Operations $21.1 $21.0 1a, 1b, 1c
        009 - Mayor’s Office of Media & Entertainment $9.3 $9.9 *
        011 - 311 $20.9 $23.5 *
        013 - New York City Cyber Command $16.9 $18.2 *
Other Than Personal Services - Total $748.6 $800.0 
       002 - Technology Services $457.3 $467.5 All
       004 - Admin/Operations $51.9 $55.3 All
       008 - 911 Technical Operations $95.4 $127.6 1a, 1b, 1c
       010 - Mayor’s Office of Media & Entertainment $12.1 $21.6 *
       012 - 311 $41.3 $40.7 *
       014 - New York City Cyber Command $90.6 $87.3 *
Agency Total $922.3 $982.6 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.     3Refer to agency goals listed at front of 
chapter.     * None
<<<PAGE 478>>>
Page 466  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Lisa Gelobter was appointed Chief Technical Officer and Commissioner of the Office of Technology and Innovation in 
February 2026.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• NYC.gov: 
http://www.nyc.gov/
• NYC Artificial Intelligence (AI) Action Plan:  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/oti/downloads/pdf/reports/artificial-intelligence-action-plan.pdf
• NYC Open Data:  
http://nyc.gov/opendata
• OTI’s Strategic Plan: 
https://www1.nyc.gov/assets/oti/downloads/pdf/about/strategic-plan-2022.pdf
• The Social Indicators and Equity Report, EquityNYC: 
https://equity.nyc.gov/ 
• Website Redesign for NYC.gov:  
https://www.nyc.gov/main/learn-about-updated-website
For more information on the Agency, please visit: www.nyc.gov/OTI.
<<<PAGE 479>>>
BOARD OF  
ELECTIONS Michael J. Ryan, Executive Director
BOARD OF ELECTIONS  |  Page 467
WHAT WE DO
The Board of Elections of the 
City of New York (the Board) 
is an administrative body of 10 
commissioners, two from each of 
New York City’s five boroughs upon 
recommendation by both political 
parties, and then appointed by the 
New York City Council for terms 
of four years. The commissioners 
appoint a bipartisan staff to oversee 
the daily activities of its main and 
five borough offices. The Board is 
responsible under New York State 
election law for the following: 
voter registration, outreach, and 
processing; maintenance and 
updating of voter records; processing 
and verification of candidate 
petitions/documents; recruiting, 
training, and assigning the various 
election day officers to conduct 
elections; operation of poll site 
locations; maintenance, repair, setup, 
and deployment of the Election Day 
operation equipment; ensuring 
each voter their right to vote at 
the polls or by absentee ballot; 
canvassing and certification of the 
vote; voter education, notification, 
and dissemination of election 
information; and preparation of 
maps of various political subdivisions.
FOCUS ON EQUITY 
The Board’s mission is to conduct fair and honest elections, enfranchise all 
eligible New Yorkers, retain official voting records, and provide voter outreach 
and education. This is done by providing meaningful access to over 1,200 poll 
sites throughout the City and working closely with all stakeholders, including 
various government bodies and advocacy groups. To ensure that all eligible voters 
receive the materials and assistance required to independently participate in 
the voting process, the Board works diligently to maintain compliance with the 
requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act and federal limited English 
proficiency standards.
<<<PAGE 480>>>
Page 468  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
HOW WE PERFORMED IN FISCAL 2026
Performance Indicators
Actual Target Trend
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5-Year
Desired 
Direction
Voter turnout — General Election (000) (CY) 1,149 1,820 579 2,819 2,219 * * Up *
Voter Registration forms processed (CY) 131,735 710,947 362,237 1,030,444 1,073,288 * * Up *
Registered voters (000) (CY) 5,599 5,199 5,132 5,354 5,316 * * Neutral Up
Active voters (000) (CY) 4,949 4,736 4,643 4,769 4,955 * * Neutral Up
Absentee Ballots utilized (CY) 231,000 262,000 66,000 473,000 300,000 * * Up *
Accessible Absentee Ballot requests (CY) 763 1,233 230 981 473 * * Down *
Accessible Absentee Ballots requests accepted (%) (CY) 93% 100% 100% 100% 100% * * Neutral *
Accessible Absentee Ballots returned (%) (CY) 40% 48% 37% 47% 49% * * Up *
Poll worker attendance on election day (%) (CY) 93.9% 90.6% 97.3% 96.2% 96.0% * * Neutral Up
Voter complaints regarding poll workers (CY) 510 551 154 90 134 * * Down Down
Voter complaints regarding poll workers — Service (CY) 355 400 117 45 66 * * Down Down
Voter complaints regarding poll workers — Procedure (CY) 155 151 37 45 68 * * Down Down
Voting equipment replacement rate — Ballot scanners (%) (CY) 0.8% 0.8% 0.7% 1.5% 1.6% * * Up Down
Voting equipment replacement rate — Ballot marking devices 
(%) (CY) 1.7% 2.2% 0.3% 3.7% 2.2% * * Up Down
Precision of unofficial election results (%) (CY) 1.1% 1.9% 0.7% 0.5% 0.7% * * Down *
Interpreters deployed on election day (CY) 6,526 6,949 7,049 7,708 8,670 * * Up *
Interpreters deployed on election day — Bronx (CY) 549 582 617 667 642 * * Up *
Interpreters deployed on election day — Brooklyn (CY) 2,082 2,285 2,293 2,717 2,986 * * Up *
Interpreters deployed on election day — Queens (CY) 2,622 2,700 2,723 2,930 3,215 * * Up *
Interpreters deployed on election day — Manhattan (CY) 1,064 1,174 1,207 1,144 1,327 * * Up *
Interpreters deployed on election day — Staten Island (CY) 209 208 209 250 500 * * Up *
Interpreter attendance on election day (%) (CY) 93% 92% 96% 97% 95% * * Neutral *
Interpreter attendance on General Election (%) (CY) 95% 95% 97% 95% 97% * * Neutral *
 Critical Indicator            ® Equity Indicator            “NA” Not Available            ñò Directional Target            * None
AGENCY RESOURCES
Resource Indicators
Actual1 Plan2
FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27 5yr Trend
Expenditures ($000,000) 3 $222.2 $258.0 $257.3 $273.4 $273.8 $214.4 $212.3 Up
Revenues ($000) $46.9 $33.3 $31.7 $36.0 $32.4 $38.0 $38.0 Down
Personnel 841 860 875 898 890 652 652 Neutral
Overtime paid ($000,000) $11.6 $11.7 $12.4 $16.1 $8.3 $8.3 $8.3 Down
1Actual financial amounts for the current fiscal year are not yet final. Final fiscal year actuals, from the Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports, will be reported in the next 
PMMR. Refer to the “Indicator Definitions” at nyc.gov/mmr for details.          2Authorized Budget Level          3Expenditures include all funds          “NA” - Not Available           
* None
<<<PAGE 481>>>
BOARD OF ELECTIONS  |  Page 469
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
Agency expenditures and planned resources by budgetary unit of appropriation.
Unit of Appropriation
Expenditures  
FY251 
($000,000)
Modified Budget  
FY262 
($000,000)
        001 - Personal Services $126.6 $127.0 
        002 - Other Than Personal Services $146.8 $146.9 
Agency Total $273.4 $273.8 
1Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports (ACFR) for the Fiscal Year ended June 30, 2025.  Includes all funds.     2Includes all funds.    
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
None.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
For additional information go to:
• Annual Reports: 
www.vote.nyc/page/annual-reports
For more information on the agency, please visit: www.vote.nyc.
<<<PAGE 482>>>
Page 470  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 483>>>
APPENDIX  |  Page 471
Appendix
<<<PAGE 484>>>
Page 472  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 485>>>
Additional 
Tables
<<<PAGE 486>>>

<<<PAGE 487>>>
Table  of  ConTenTs
a ddiTional  Tables
Annual Paid Absence Rates ...........................................................................................................477
Vehicle Fleets and Maintenance ....................................................................................................479
Spending and Budget Information ................................................................................................493
Agency Procurement Actions by Method.......................................................................................495
Implementation of the Citywide Statement of Needs ....................................................................509
Agency Internal Controls ...............................................................................................................515
Agency Rulemaking Actions ..........................................................................................................523
<<<PAGE 488>>>

<<<PAGE 489>>>
ANNUAL PAID ABSENCE RATES  |  Page 477
ANNUAL PAID ABSENCE RATES
WORKFORCE OR AGENCY
FY 2026
TOTAL 
SICK LEAVE
FY 2026
LODI/
WC
FY 2026
TOTAL
ABSENCE
FY 2025
TOTAL
ABSENCE
FY 2026
EQUIV. ABSENCE
DAYS/YEAR
UNIFORMED WORKFORCES
DOC (U) 8.67% 2.72% 11.40% 12.14% 28.4
FDNY (U) 2.08% 6.22% 8.30% 7.45% 20.7
NYPD (U) 3.47% 0.74% 4.21% 4.28% 10.5
DSNY (U) 5.98% 1.89% 7.87% 8.35% 19.6
Uniformed Subtotal 4.06% 2.12% 6.18% 9.98% 15.4 
LARGER CIVILIAN WORKFORCES
NYPD (C) 0.87% 0.04% 0.91% 0.06% 2.3 
FDNY (C) 4.08% 0.13% 4.21% 3.98% 10.5 
ACS* 3.58% 1.01% 4.59% 4.71% 11.4 
HRA 3.63% 0.12% 3.75% 3.80% 9.3 
DHS 3.57% 1.01% 4.58% 4.52% 11.4 
HPD 3.34% 0.21% 3.55% 3.62% 8.8 
DOHMH 3.29% 0.03% 3.32% 3.37% 8.3 
DEP* 3.39% 0.32% 3.71% 3.56% 9.2 
DSNY (C) 3.82% 0.48% 4.30% 4.75% 10.7 
DOF* 3.24% 0.49% 3.73% 3.39% 9.3 
DOT* 3.49% 0.55% 4.04% 3.99% 10.1 
DPR 2.64% 0.22% 2.86% 3.04% 7.1 
LAW 3.03% 0.01% 3.04% 3.24% 7.6 
DCAS 3.15% 0.13% 3.27% 3.22% 8.1 
DDC 3.57% 0.00% 3.57% 3.37% 8.9 
DOC (C) 3.09% 1.09% 4.18% 7.81% 10.4 
DOP* 3.99% 0.42% 4.42% 4.99% 11.00
DOB 3.02% 0.08% 3.10% 3.39% 7.7 
OTI 2.87% 0.01% 2.88% 2.84% 7.2 
Subtotal 3.29% 0.31% 3.61% 2.60% 9.0 
SMALLER CIVILIAN WORKFORCES
NYCEM 2.28% 0.00% 2.28% 2.35% 5.7 
DCP 2.98% 0.01% 2.98% 2.87% 7.4 
DOI 2.69% 0.04% 2.73% 2.72% 6.8 
DFTA 3.53% 0.00% 3.53% 3.49% 8.8 
DCLA 2.99% 0.01% 3.00% 2.56% 7.5 
OATH 2.21% 0.00% 2.21% 2.55% 5.5 
LPC 3.40% 0.40% 3.79% 4.12% 9.4 
BOE 3.37% 0.00% 3.37% 4.09% 8.4 
CCRB 2.84% 0.00% 2.85% 2.90% 7.1 
TLC 3.19% 0.00% 3.19% 3.58% 7.9 
CCHR 3.84% 0.01% 3.85% 4.16% 9.6 
DYCD 3.41% 0.01% 3.41% 3.47% 8.5 
SBS 2.86% 0.26% 3.12% 2.96% 7.8 
DORIS 2.83% 0.00% 2.83% 2.66% 7.0 
DCWP 4.43% 0.01% 4.45% 4.46% 11.1 
BIC 2.63% 0.35% 2.98% 2.96% 7.4 
DVS 1.85% 0.00% 1.85% 2.21% 4.6 
<<<PAGE 490>>>
Page 478  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Subtotal 3.26% 0.06% 3.33% 3.40% 8.3 
Uniformed 4.18% 2.12% 6.30% 10.50% 15.7
Civilian 3.29% 0.30% 3.59% 2.64% 8.9
TOTAL 3.66% 1.16% 4.81% 3.70% 12.0
CITYWIDE 3.66% 0.16% 3.81% 3.35% 9.5
Note: The Total Absence Rate is calculated by dividing the sum of paid sick leave for all employees, Line-of-Duty Injury absence for uniformed employees, and paid Workers’ 
Compensation absence for civilian employees, by paid scheduled hours for all employees. The Citywide Absence Rate is calculated by dividing paid sick leave for all employees 
plus paid Workers’ Compensation absence for civilian employees by paid scheduled hours for all employees.  
 
(*) Civilian agency includes both Line-of-Duty Injury absence for their uniformed employees and paid Worker’s Compensation absence for their civilian employees.
<<<PAGE 491>>>
VEHICLE FLEETS AND MAINTENANCE  |  Page 479
VEHICLE FLEETS AND MAINTENANCE
New York City’s municipal fleet—including, but not limited to, the New York City Police Department (NYPD) response 
vehicles, the Fire Department of the City of New York (FDNY) ambulances and fire apparatuses, and the Department of 
Sanitation (DSNY) garbage trucks and sweepers—supports critical and daily emergency services for all New Yorkers. Pursuant 
to Executive Order 161 of 2012, citywide fleet operations are led by the Department of Citywide Administrative Services 
(DCAS) Fleet Management line of service, which is helmed by the Deputy Commissioner for Fleet Management, who also 
serves as the City’s Chief Fleet Officer. The Chief Fleet Officer works with more than 50 City agencies that operate fleet 
units. Those agencies include the 14 major fleet agencies of the Fleet Federation, which is composed of DCAS and the 
following agencies: 
• Department of Correction (DOC) 
• Department of Education (DOE) 
• Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) 
• Department of Health and Mental Hygiene (DOHMH) 
• Department of Parks and Recreation (DPR) 
• Department of Sanitation (DSNY) 
• Department of Transportation (DOT) 
• Fire Department of the City of New York (FDNY) 
• New York City Emergency Management (NYCEM) 
• New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) 
• New York City Police Department (NYPD) 
• Office of Chief Medical Examiner (OCME) 
• Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC) 
DCAS’ role in the City fleet includes managing acquisitions, auctions, car share, the central fleet management system, 
collisions, driver policy, telematics reporting, fuel, parts, procurement, repairs, service contracting, sustainability efforts, 
internships, and training. DCAS also works in partnership with the Mayor’s Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 
on resource authorization. Finally, DCAS leads fleet efforts in cost-efficiency, shared servicing, emergency management, 
safety, sustainability, compliance, and transparency. A few of the efforts undertaken over the reporting period are 
described below.
At the close of Fiscal 2026, the City fleet totaled 28,567 vehicles, down 890 units, or three percent, from Fiscal 2022, 
when a citywide fleet reduction initiative began. Although the initiative formally concluded in December 2022, DCAS 
continues to work to optimize fleet size, identify further downsizing opportunities, and require electric offsets, where 
possible, for any approved fleet increases tied to operational needs. Compared to Fiscal 2025, the City fleet decreased 
201 units. 
DCAS continues to roll out sustainability initiatives under the NYC Clean Fleet Plan, a City plan to cut fleet greenhouse 
gas emissions by 50 percent by Calendar 2025 (50x25) and by 80 percent by Calendar 2035 (80x35). As highlighted in 
the 2024 NYC Greenhouse Gas Inventory, fleet had achieved a 46.5 percent reduction by 2024. DCAS made significant 
progress in replacing fossil fuel-powered fleet vehicles with electric vehicles (EVs) during Fiscal 2026. EVs in the citywide 
fleet rose to a record high of 5,970 from 5,569 in Fiscal 2025, an increase of seven percent. DCAS also added 293 
electric vehicle charging ports in Fiscal 2026 to support electrification, 33 percent more than the previous fiscal year. 
DCAS operates the largest EV charging network in New York State with over 2,300 ports. DCAS installs Level 2 overnight 
<<<PAGE 492>>>
Page 480  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
chargers, solar carports, and Level 3 fast chargers. Fast charging ensures sufficient charging access for pickup trucks, 
vans, and law enforcement EVs, which depend more heavily on fast charging than standard sedans. The momentum 
in fleet electrification is sustained by Local Law 140 of 2023 (LL140). Subject to commercial availability and reliability, 
LL140 requires the complete electrification of light- and medium-duty fleet by 2035 and heavy-duty fleet by 2038. This 
law codifies DCAS’ and the City’s commitments to aggressively and fully electrify the City’s fleet.
Vision Zero remains a priority for DCAS and the City fleet. In February 2024, the City reinforced its commitment to public 
safety with the signing of Executive Order 39 (EO39), which strengthens safety standards for both City-operated and 
contractor fleets. EO39 mandates safe driver training, telematics installation, and the submission of fleet safety plans 
by contractors to their respective agencies. These measures, paired with high-vision trucks and surround cameras, aim 
to improve safety across City-owned and contractor trucks operating daily in the City. DCAS also continues to lead in 
Intelligent Speed Assistance (ISA) implementation and other safety upgrades through its Safe Fleet Transition Plan. ISA 
systems use GPS and telematics to help drivers stay within posted speed limits by sending data to the engine’s computer, 
which limits acceleration once the driver exceeds the limit. DCAS announced in October 2025 that ISA would become a 
standard feature on all new civilian-personnel vehicle procurements moving forward. DCAS has now installed 1,000 units 
with ISA, the largest program in North America. Additionally, as of October 2025, 100 percent of authorized City drivers 
were trained in defensive driving, exceeding the 95 percent target. Vehicle collisions increased substantially citywide from 
5,729 in Fiscal 2025 to 7,628 in Fiscal 2026. This increase is completely tied to interagency snow operations across five 
storm events, including winter storms Fern and Hernando, when over 2,100 collisions were recorded across 32 days of 
plowing and emergency operations. These were primarily vehicle body damage incidents attributable to DSNY. 
The citywide daily vehicle in-service rate remained steady at 87 percent in Fiscal 2026, remaining below the target of 
90 percent, while the percentage of days the target for vehicle in-service rate was met fell 12 percentage points to 52 
percent, from 64 percent in Fiscal 2025. Several factors contributed to this decline, including a record high average 
fleet age of 100 months Fiscal 2026, driven by greatly reduced expense funding for electric vehicle replacements, and 
ongoing supply chain disruptions, which delayed delivery of new vehicles. Continued staffing reductions in mechanic 
roles also negatively affected these in-service rates. Vehicles purchased increased to 2,737 from 1,844 during the same 
reporting period, which will provide relief for fleet age when the vehicles arrive and are placed in service. DCAS did not 
purchase any buses, including alternative fuel models, in Fiscal 2026.
In October 2024, DCAS announced the full transition of all City trucks (on- and off-road and emergency and 
nonemergency) to renewable diesel. The shift is now complete across all in-house fuel sites, with 17.8 million gallons 
of biofuel (B100 equivalent) powering the fleet in Fiscal 2026. DCAS now leads the East Coast as the largest municipal 
fleet user of renewable fuels. This milestone marks a critical step toward fulfilling the Clean Fleet Plan’s pledge to cut 
fleet greenhouse gas emissions by 50 percent by Calendar 2025. DCAS has also extended this initiative to the Staten 
Island Ferry and other City vessel programs.
<<<PAGE 493>>>
VEHICLE FLEETS AND MAINTENANCE  |  Page 481
Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
Total Fleet Size 28,768 28,567 28,600 28,825
   -  On Road Fleet Total 23,904 23,727 23,700 23,925
   -  Light Duty 11,767 11,605 11,650 11,750
   -  Medium Duty 4,394 4,367 4,400 4,425
   -  Heavy Duty 7,743 7,755 7,650 7,750
   -  Off Road/Other Equipment 4,864 4,840 4,900 4,900
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 87% 87% 90% 90%
Daily fleet in-service targets achieved (%) 64% 52% 90% 90%
Purchased vehicles compliant with Local Law 38 (%) 100% 100% 100% 100%
Alternative fuel vehicles 21,723 22,365 22,000 23,500
Alternative fuel vehicles in City fleet (%) 77% 79% 79% 82%
Electric vehicles 5,569 5,970 6,000 6,500
   -  On-road electric vehicles 4,714 5,097 5,075 5,575
   -  Off-road electric vehicles 855 873 925 925
Vehicle fuel used (gallons) 25,607,905 27,019,396 24,000,000 24,000,000
   -  Biodiesel fuel used (gallons) 15,927,795 17,788,859 14,500,000 16,000,000
   -  B100/RD100 equivalent used (gallons) 15,927,795 17,784,827 14,500,000 16,000,000
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 5.9 5.6 7.0 7.0
Electric vehicle charging ports installed 221 293 250 300
Cumulative electric vehicle charging ports 2,072 2,371 2,250 2,650
Vehicles purchased 1,844 2,737 1,700 2,200
Average age of fleet (months) 90.0 100.0 90 90
Collisions in City vehicles¹ 5,729 7,628 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles citywide 6.2 8.0 * *
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles citywide 2.5 3.2 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles citywide per 100,000 miles 0.7 0.8 * *
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles 0.2 0.3 * *
Preventable collisions in City vehicles 2,344 3,024 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles 676 743 * *
Fatalities involving collisions in non-emergency City vehicles 2 4 * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $2,094,027 $2,345,011 * *
City employees trained in defensive driving citywide 8,037 10,887 7,000 7,000
Authorized City drivers trained in defensive driving (%) 100% 100% 95% 95%
Fleet repair expenditures ($000,000) $327.0 $358.7 * *
Fleet fuel expenditures ($000,000) $87.9 $98.8 * *
Fleet acquisition expenditures (capital) ($000,000) $415.0 $533.8 $374.0 $350.0
Fleet acquisition expenditures (expense) ($000,000) $48.9 $102.3 $48.0 $50.0
Automotive repair personnel 1,301 1,266 1,320 1,320
Fleet support personnel 309 318 305 305
¹The number of collisions in City vehicles do not include NYPD collisions.       “NA”   Not Available        *None
VEHICLE FLEETS AND MAINTENANCE
<<<PAGE 494>>>
Page 482  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
Vehicles 2,118 2,094 * *
   - On-Road Total 1,925 1,904 * *
   - Light Duty 1,576 1,560 * *
   - Medium Duty 281 276 * *
   - Heavy Duty 68 68 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 193 190 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 98% 99% * *
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 24.6 25.3 * *
Collisions in City vehicles 345 379 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 2.9 3.3 * *
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 1.1 1.2 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles per 100,000 miles 0.4 0.5 * *
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles 0.1 0.2 * *
City employees trained in defensive driving 2,255 3,310 * *
Authorized City drivers trained in defensive driving (%) 100% 100% * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $310,266 $182,957 * *
“NA”  Not Available             *None
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
Vehicles 2,027 2,039 * *
   - On Road Total 1,675 1,672 * *
   - Light Duty 844 877 * *
   - Medium Duty 412 388 * *
   - Heavy Duty 419 407 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 352 367 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 86% 85% * *
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 12.3 13.1 * *
Collisions in City vehicles 243 338 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 2.3 3.0 * *
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 1.0 1.6 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles per 100,000 miles 0.1 0.5 * *
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles 0.0 0.2 * *
City employees trained in defensive driving 878 2,275 * *
Authorized City drivers trained in defensive driving (%) 100% 100% * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $57,078 $87,403 * *
“NA”  Not Available             *None
THE FOLLOWING IS A DETAILED FLEET BREAKDOWN FOR AGENCIES 
WITH THE LARGEST CITY-MANAGED FLEETS:
<<<PAGE 495>>>
VEHICLE FLEETS AND MAINTENANCE  |  Page 483
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND MENTAL HYGIENE Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
Vehicles 207 211 * *
   - On Road Total 205 209 * *
   - Light Duty 145 149 * *
   - Medium Duty 57 57 * *
   - Heavy Duty 3 3 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 2 2 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 97% NA * *
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 27.3 28.3 * *
Collisions in City vehicles 10 14 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 1.1 1.6 * *
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 0.3 0.1 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles per 100,000 miles 0.1 0.2 * *
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles 0.0 0.0 * *
City employees trained in defensive driving 333 379 * *
Authorized City drivers trained in defensive driving (%) 100% 100% * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $13,209 $9,244 * *
“NA”  Not Available             *None
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
Vehicles 3,473 3,456 * *
   - On Road Total 2,474 2,466 * *
   - Light Duty 980 983 * *
   - Medium Duty 530 532 * *
   - Heavy Duty 964 951 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 999 990 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 90% 89% * *
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 5.2 5.4 * *
Collisions in City vehicles 387 424 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 3.6 3.9 * *
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 1.8 1.8 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles per 100,000 miles 0.7 0.6 * *
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles 0.2 0.2 * *
City employees trained in defensive driving 1,322 1,093 * *
Authorized City drivers trained in defensive driving (%) 100% 100% * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $56,623 $186,932 * *
“NA”  Not Available             *None
<<<PAGE 496>>>
Page 484  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
 Vehicles 6,108 6,089 * *
   - On Road Total 5,162 5,150 * *
   - Light Duty 845 848 * *
   - Medium Duty 328 330 * *
   - Heavy Duty 3,989 3,972 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 946 939 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 78% 77% * *
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 3.0 2.7 * *
Collisions in City vehicles 2,354 3,724 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 8.2 11.8 * *
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 4.6 5.5 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles per 100,000 miles 0.8 0.7 * *
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles 0.4 0.4 * *
City employees trained in defensive driving 347 914 * *
Authorized City drivers trained in defensive driving (%) 100% 100% * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $102,546 $154,529 * *
“NA”  Not Available             *None
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
Vehicles 2,814 2,823 * *
   - On Road Total 1,735 1,752 * *
   - Light Duty 599 615 * *
   - Medium Duty 758 755 * *
   - Heavy Duty 378 382 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 1,079 1,071 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 91% 92% * *
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 8.8 8.8 * *
Collisions in City vehicles 634 616 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 7.6 7.3 * *
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 4.4 4.3 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles per 100,000 miles 0.3 0.6 * *
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles 0.1 0.1 * *
City employees trained in defensive driving 1,970 1,913 * *
Authorized City drivers trained in defensive driving (%) 100% 100% * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $58,849 $95,964 * *
“NA”  Not Available             *None
<<<PAGE 497>>>
VEHICLE FLEETS AND MAINTENANCE  |  Page 485
POLICE DEPARTMENT Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
Vehicles 8,864 8,652 * *
   - On Road Total 7,862 7,681 * *
   - Light Duty 6,131 5,914 * *
   - Medium Duty 1,318 1,320 * *
   - Heavy Duty 413 447 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 1,002 971 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 90% 89% * *
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 9.0 8.6 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 6.3 5.4 * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $1,092,396 $1,007,620 * *
“NA”  Not Available            *None
FIRE DEPARTMENT Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
 Vehicles 2,232 2,257 * *
   - On Road Total 2,077 2,096 * *
   - Light Duty 311 311 * *
   - Medium Duty 453 450 * *
   - Heavy Duty 1,313 1,335 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 155 161 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 78% 76% * *
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 4.0 4.2 * *
Collisions in City vehicles 1,659 2,033 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 9.4 11.5 * *
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 0.8 1.8 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles per 100,000 miles 1.6 1.8 * *
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles 0.1 0.4 * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $390,127 $606,509 * *
“NA”  Not Available             *None
<<<PAGE 498>>>
Page 486  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
DEPARTMENT OF CORRECTION Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25quite FY26 FY26 FY27
Vehicles 698 721 * *
   - On Road Total 573 587 * *
   - Light Duty 242 256 * *
   - Medium Duty 157 158 * *
   - Heavy Duty 174 173 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 125 134 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 93% 91% * *
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG) 7.7 7.5 * *
Collisions in City vehicles 97 100 * *
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 3.0 3.1 * *
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles 2.5 2.2 * *
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles per 100,000 miles 0.1 0.3 * *
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles 0.1 0.1 * *
City employees trained in defensive driving 587 303 * *
Authorized City drivers trained in defensive driving (%) 100% 100% * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $9,553 $10,246 * *
“NA”  Not Available             *None
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Actual Target
INDICATORS FY25 FY26 FY26 FY27
Vehicles 227 225 * *
   - On Road Total 216 210 * *
   - Light Duty 94 92 * *
   - Medium Duty 100 101 * *
   - Heavy Duty 22 17 * *
   - Off Road/Other Equipment 11 15 * *
Vehicle in-service rate (%) 100% NA * *
Collisions in City vehicles NA NA * *
City employees trained in defensive driving NA NA * *
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims $3,379 $3,607 * *
“NA”  Not Available             *None
<<<PAGE 499>>>
VEHICLE FLEETS AND MAINTENANCE  |  Page 487
NOTEWORTHY CHANGES, ADDITIONS OR DELETIONS !
• Several Fiscal 2027 targets for citywide fleet indicators were revised upward: 
 − ‘Total Fleet Size' was revised from 28,650 to 28,825.
 − ‘—On-Road Fleet Total' was revised from 23,750 to 23,925.
 − ‘— Light Duty' was revised from 11,700 to 11,750.
 − ‘— Medium Duty' was revised from 4,400 to 4,425.
 − ‘— Heavy Duty' was revised from 7,650 to 7,750.
 − ‘— Alternative Fuel Vehicles' was revised from 22,500 to 23,500.
 − ‘— Alternative Fuel Vehicles in City Fleet (%)' was revised from 79 percent to 82 percent.
 − ‘— Electric Vehicle Charging Ports Installed' was revised from 250 to 300.
 − ‘— Cumulative Electric Vehicle Charging Ports' was revised from 2,500 to 2,650.
 − ‘— Vehicles Purchased' was revised from 1,700 to 2,200.
• The indicator ‘Vehicle in-service rate (%)’ is no longer reported separately for DOHMH and DOE. It is included in the 
DCAS indicator as both are DCAS client agencies.
ADDITIONAL RESOURCES
• DCAS Fleet Management:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/fleet-services.page
• NYC Fleet Newsletter:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/fleet-news.page
• Air Pollution from City Vehicles Report (Local Law 38):  
www.nyc.gov/assets/dep/downloads/pdf/air/2024-annual-air-noise-reports.pdf
• DCAS Fleet Sustainability:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/fleet-sustainability.page
• DCAS Fleet Training:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/agencies/fleet-training.page
• Fleet Vehicle Auctions:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/business/vehicle-auction.page
• High School Automotive Internship Program:  
www.nyc.gov/site/dcas/employment/internship-and-fellowships-high-school-automotive-internship-program.page
• Map of DCAS Public Access Charging Stations:  
www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/public-access-charging-stations-map.pdf
<<<PAGE 500>>>
Page 488  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
• NYC Clean Fleet Plan:  
www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/NYC-Clean-Fleet-Update-September-2021.pdf
• NYC Clean Fleet Transition Plan:  
www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/clean-fleet-transition-plan-october-2022.pdf
• NYC Clean Fleet Update:  
www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/nyc-dcas-clean-fleet-update-report-2024.pdf
• NYC Greenhouse Gas Inventories:  
www.nyc.gov/content/climate/pages/initiatives/nyc-greenhouse-gas-inventories
• NYC Fleet Daily Service Report:  
www.nyc.gov/site/operations/performance/fleet-report.page
• NYC Safe Fleet Transition Plan:  
www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/Safe-Fleet-Transition-Plan-Update-2018.pdf
• Safe Fleet Transition Plan Update:  
www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/2025/nyc-safe-fleet-transition-plan-update-2025.pdf
• Transition of the Citywide Fleet to Electric Vehicles (Local Law 140):  
https://www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/local-law-140-2023-on-transition-to-electric-fleet-vehicles-
report-2025.pdf 
• Use-Based Fuel Economy Report (Local Law 75):  
www.nyc.gov/assets/dcas/downloads/pdf/fleet/2026/local-law-77-use-based-fuel-economy-2013-2025.pdf
FLEET DEFINITIONS
Alternative fuel vehicles: 
The total number of City vehicles that are using alternative fuel.
Alternative fuel vehicles in City fleet (%): 
The percentage of City vehicles that are using alternative fuel.
Automotive repair personnel: 
The number of City personnel assigned to repair and maintain City fleet for the year.
Average age of fleet (months): 
The average number of months from the date a vehicle is put in service to the end of the reporting period (i.e., the 
MMR/ PMMR reporting period).
B100/RD100 equivalent used (gallons): 
The volume of diesel used in a year equivalent to 100% biodiesel (B100) and 100% renewable diesel (RD100). For 
example, 100 gallons of B20 (20% biodiesel) would equal 20 gallons of B100 equivalent.
Citywide fleet size: 
The total number of vehicles in the city managed fleet and the subtotals by vehicle size/type.
Collisions in City vehicles: 
The number of collisions in the year as reported by City agencies.
Collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles citywide: 
The number of City-vehicle involved collision reports per 100,000 miles involving injury or property damage in the 
citywide fleet reported in the citywide collision reporting system (CRASH).
<<<PAGE 501>>>
VEHICLE FLEETS AND MAINTENANCE  |  Page 489
Cumulative electric vehicle charger ports: 
The total number of ports available for all electric vehicle chargers. Many of the City’s EV chargers are dual port and can 
support charging two vehicles at the same time.
Daily fleet in-service targets achieved (%): 
The percentage of days the target for vehicle in-service rate was met.
Electric chargers installed: 
The number of chargers installed for City electric powered vehicles.
Electric vehicles: 
The number of electric and plug-in vehicles in the citywide fleet. The fiscal year figure is the number of electric vehicles 
on the last day of the reporting period.
Employees trained in defensive driving: 
The number of City employees trained in defensive driving centrally.
Fast chargers: 
Also known as Level 3 or Direct Current (DC) Fast Charging. Level 3 fast chargers deliver 480V via a direct-current (DC) 
plug.
Fatalities involving collisions in nonemergency City vehicles: 
The number of fatalities to City employees and all other parties involved in collisions that included one or more 
nonemergency City fleet vehicle (and no City emergency response vehicle).
Fleet acquisition expenditures (capital) ($000,000): 
The amount of capital funds spent on City fleet during the year.
Fleet acquisition expenditures (expense) ($000,000): 
The amount of expense funds spent on City fleet during the year.
Fleet fuel expenditures ($000,000): 
The amount spent on fuel for City fleet during the year.
Fleet miles per gallon (FMPG): 
This indicator shows a total miles per gallon average for all vehicles combined. Agency fuel use may involve off-road and 
specialized equipment usage that impacts this calculation. It is not a vehicle-specific MPG indicator but offers a general 
view of fuel efficiency for the City fleet.
Fleet repair expenditures ($000,000): 
The amount spent on repair and maintenance of City fleet during the year.
Fleet support personnel: 
The number of City personnel assigned to administer and support City fleet operations for the year.
Heavy duty: 
On-road vehicles over 14,000 Gross Vehicle Weight (GVW).
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles: 
The number of injuries to City employees and all other parties involved in collisions that included at least one City fleet 
vehicle.
Injuries involving collisions in City vehicles per 100,000 miles: 
The number of injuries associated with collisions per 100,000 miles that included at least one City vehicle.
Injuries involving preventable collisions per 100,000 miles: 
The number of injuries in preventable collisions reported per 100,000 miles in the citywide fleet.
<<<PAGE 502>>>
Page 490  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Light duty: 
On-road vehicles 8,500 GVW or less.
Medium duty: 
On-road vehicles over 8,500 but not more than 14,000 GVW.
Off-road electric vehicles: 
The number of off-road electric and plug-in vehicles in the citywide fleet. The fiscal year figure is the number of electric 
vehicles on the last day of the reporting period. This includes off-road solar electric units.
Off road/Other equipment: 
Non road vehicles and specialized equipment used for construction, agriculture, and recreation. Equipment includes 
front- end loaders, forklifts, generators, and tractors.
On-road electric vehicles: 
The number of on-road electric and plug-in vehicles in the citywide fleet. The fiscal year figure is the number of electric 
vehicles on the last day of the reporting period.
On-road fleet total: 
The total number of on-road vehicles in the City-managed fleet and the subtotals by vehicle size.
Preventable collisions in City vehicles: 
A collision in which the driver, by their own admission or in the judgment of an Agency Accident Review Committee, did 
not take all reasonable avoidance actions, including attention to road conditions and improper actions of other drivers. 
“Preventability” is not limited to the violation of traffic laws and is distinguished from “chargeability” as determined by 
the law.
Preventable collisions per 100,000 miles involving City vehicles citywide: 
The number of preventable collisions reports per 100,000 miles in the citywide fleet.
Purchased vehicles compliant with Local Law 38 (%): 
The percentage of light and medium-duty vehicles purchased for the City through DCAS during the period that are 
certified with the highest ratings defined by California Low-Emission Vehicle (LEV) II standards. The four highest ratings 
are zero emission vehicles (ZEV), transitional zero emission vehicles (TZEV), advanced technology partial zero emission 
vehicles (ATPZEV), and partial zero emission vehicles (PZEV). Pursuant to Local Law 38 of 2005, each light- and medium-
duty vehicle that the City purchases should have the best certified emission rating within its vehicle category while 
meeting the requirements for the City’s intended use. According to the law, some exceptions apply based on cost and 
other limited exemptions, including for certain emergency vehicles.
Revenue from recoverable affirmative claims: 
The amount of money recovered following collisions in City vehicles.
Vehicle and biodiesel fuel used (gallons): 
The volume of fuel used by City fleet in year (biodiesel is included in vehicle fuel).
Vehicle in-service rate (%): 
The percentage of fleet in full service.
Vehicles purchased: 
The number of City fleet vehicles acquired.
<<<PAGE 503>>>
VEHICLE FLEETS AND MAINTENANCE  |  Page 491
LIST OF AGENCIES IN THE CITYWIDE FLEET
Department of Citywide Administrative Services* New York City Fire Department
Department of Environmental Protection New York City Police Department
Department of Correction Department of Transportation
Department of Parks and Recreation Department of Sanitation
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Department of Education
*”DEPARTMENT OF CITYWIDE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES” 
VEHICLES INCLUDE THOSE USED BY THE FOLLOWING AGENCIES:
Department of Citywide Administrative Services* New York City Fire Department
Department of Environmental Protection New York City Police Department
Department of Correction Department of Transportation
Department of Parks and Recreation Department of Sanitation
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene Department of Education
Administration of Children’s Services Department of Youth and Community Development
Board of Elections Financial Information Services Agency
Bronx Borough President GrowNY (formerly known as “Council on the Environment”)
Brooklyn Borough President Human Resources Administration
Business Integrity Commission Landmarks Preservation Commission
Campaign Finance Board Law Department
City Commission on Human Rights Manhattan Borough President
City Council Mayor’s Office
Civilian Complaint Review Board New York City Emergency Management
Department for the Aging NYC Economic Development Corporation
Department of Buildings Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings
Department of City Planning Office of Chief Medical Examiner
Department of Citywide Administrative Services Office of Labor Relations
Department of Consumer Affairs Office of Management and Budget
Department of Cultural Affairs Office of Payroll Administration
Department of Design and Construction Office of the City Clerk
Department of Finance Office of the Comptroller
Department of Homeless Services Office of the Public Advocate
Department of Housing Preservation and Development Queens Borough President
Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications Sheriff’s Office
Department of Investigation Sports Commission
Department of Probation Staten Island Borough President
Department of Records and Information Services Tax Commission
Department of Small Business Services Taxi and Limousine Commission
<<<PAGE 504>>>
Page 492  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 505>>>
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION  |  Page 493
SPENDING AND BUDGET INFORMATION 
FISCAL 2026 MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT (MMR) 
Spending and budget information is displayed as a table within each agency’s chapter, between “Agency Resources” and 
the “Noteworthy Changes, Additions or Deletions” sections. The tables indicate, where possible, the relationship between 
an agency’s MMR goals and its units of appropriations.
The NYC Office of Management and Budget (OMB) provided the Mayor’s Office of Operations with expenditures for City 
agencies, as reported in the City’s Fiscal 2025 Annual Comprehensive Financial Reports and the planned amounts for Fiscal 
2026. Figures cited reflect all funds.
The PMMR and MMR cover the operations of City agencies that report directly to the Mayor. Additional non-Mayoral 
agencies, legally separate organizations, and unit components of agencies are included in these reports, however, spending 
and budget or goal information may be more limited. These include:
• 311
• Board of Elections
• City University of New York
• New York City Health + Hospitals
• New York City Housing Authority
• Public Libraries
• School Construction Authority
The City’s contributions to the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA) and the School Construction Authority (SCA), 
both public authorities, are not made through distinct units of appropriation.
For more information, refer to:
• NYCHA’s Annual Plan and Financial Information Webpage:  
http://www1.nyc.gov/site/nycha/about/annual-plan-financial-information.page
• SCA’s Proposed Five Year Capital Plan:  
http://www.nycsca.org/Community/Capital-Plan-Reports-Data
<<<PAGE 506>>>
Page 494  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 507>>>
AGENCY PROCUREMENT ACTIONS BY METHOD  |  Page 495
AGENCY PROCUREMENT ACTIONS BY METHOD FISCAL 2026 
Section 12c(5) of the Charter requires that the Mayor’s Management Report include for each agency a summary of the 
number and dollar value of the contracts entered into during the previous fiscal year (e.g., Fiscal 2025), categorized by 
the method of procurement used. This information is maintained by the Mayor’s Office of Contract Services (MOCS) and 
presented in the tables below. 
To find additional information on agency procurement in MOCS’ “Annual Procurement Indicators Report” upon its release 
in September 2026, and other information on City contracting and procurement, please visit: https://www.nyc.gov/site/
mocs/resources/citywide-indicator-reports.page 
Accelerated
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
DCAS 58 $132,213,045 27 $499,336,686
Total 58 $132,213,045 27 $499,336,686
Amendment
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 32 ($9,713,060) 45 $148,890,663 
BIC 1 $103,985 0 $0 
CCHR 1 $5,680 3 ($19,944)
CCRB 5 $170,532 8 $101,113 
DCAS 43 $40,202,218 48 ($25,360,949)
DCLA 2 $61,675 0 $0 
DCP 3 $387,452 1 $2,400 
DCWP 0 $0 9 $4,237,413 
DDC 97 ($22,446,040) 105 $13,449,777 
DEP 87 $61,601,799 78 $95,486,113 
DFTA 81 $4,851,177 212 $37,114,446 
DHS 65 $573,223,329 46 $946,510,027 
DOB 5 $884,072 3 $106,849 
DOC 18 $9,132,647 8 $5,085,679 
DOE 283 $451,568,763 1,027 $626,740,859 
DOF 8 $997,609 8 $7,462,166 
DOHMH 119 ($567,990,120) 167 ($127,421,958)
DOI 2 $345,250 1 $22,422 
DOP 2 $180,277 4 $444,866 
DOT 42 $16,951,119 41 $114,796,481 
DPR 48 $16,058,289 58 $6,963,213 
DSNY 19 $216,547,781 9 $48,081,903 
DVS 1 $55,000 0 $0 
DYCD 356 $81,306,158 444 $229,482,354 
FDNY 37 $9,245,650 56 $18,462,849 
HPD 32 $57,793,011 74 $28,093,538 
HRA 64 $145,960,131 74 ($11,904,753)
Law 10 $2,444,830 14 $45,853,729 
NYCEM 3 $15,095,000 2 $1,066,438 
<<<PAGE 508>>>
Page 496  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
NYPD 16 $15,244,250 26 $261,940,937 
OATH 1 $4,851 3 $208,716 
OTI 26 $32,288,688 43 $96,313,281 
SBS 86 $40,830,708 82 $113,072,355 
TLC 3 $2,862,896 4 $955,361 
Total 1,598 $1,196,255,608 2,703 $2,686,238,344 
Amendment Extension
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 57 $37,896,434 25 $31,075,234
DCWP 18 $9,797,677 12 $8,004,424
DCAS 48 $26,695,412 31 $76,947,283
DCLA 1 $150,000 2 $530,000
DCP 3 $20,000 3 $99,000
DDC 99 $37,043,181 63 $27,870,575
DEP 73 $44,164,828 55 $28,860,257
DFTA 24 $8,931,023 14 $1,348,605
DHS 36 $530,915,569 53 $597,762,341
DOB 6 $1,062,777 4 $713,897
DOC 6 $1,212,526 9 $7,172,395
DOE 94 $165,575,757 168 $482,376,915
DOF 82 $26,276,108 3 $414,123
DOHMH 1 $208,422 38 $47,089,462
DOI 87 $37,777,468 0 $0
DOP 17 $4,962,653 16 $7,466,051
DOT 59 $155,046,545 55 $35,673,165
DPR 19 $3,512,073 26 $8,301,357
DSNY 30 $1,000,000 11 $3,151,400
DYCD 205 $93,315,495 34 $19,424,582
FDNY 11 $11,952,281 16 $2,708,491
HPD 12 $1,255,844 5 $4,102,474
HRA 74 $472,109,378 47 $292,381,582
Law 10 $52,102,489 7 $2,811,879
NYCEM 8 $1,357,338 3 $3,149,433
NYPD 18 $7,277,206 14 $6,957,579
OATH 0 $0 7 $369,890
OTI 87 $37,777,468 98 $45,311,588
SBS 16 $2,561,478 12 $3,808,807
TLC 6 $2,502,480 4 $989,639
Total 1,207 1,774,459,909 835 $1,746,872,428
<<<PAGE 509>>>
AGENCY PROCUREMENT ACTIONS BY METHOD  |  Page 497
Assignment
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 5 $18,522,880 1 $168,613 
DCWP 0 $0 1 $39,000,000 
DCAS 9 $17,403,559 6 $18,612,835 
DDC 39 $79,047,624 11 $50,936,079 
DEP 1 $377,352 2 $12,723,810 
DFTA 0 $0 2 $14,342,832 
DHS 0 $0 3 $10,358,122 
DOE 15 $24,115,068 8 $7,504,624 
DOHMH 4 $581,330,964 9 $155,182,939 
DOT 1 $2,805,286 2 $4,594,323 
DYCD 0 $0 2 $3,598,598 
DSNY 2 $10,102,076 0 $0 
DYCD 2 $902,755 2 $3,598,598 
FDNY 1 $16,344,152 0 $0 
HPD 0 $0 1 $1,400,000 
HRA 3 $31,221,790 5 $43,245,910 
Law 0 $0 3 $162,015 
NYPD 0 $0 2 $419,034 
SBS 0 $0 1 $15,653,297 
Total 82 782,173,506 61 $381,501,628 
Buy-Against
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
DCAS 0 $0 1 $8,834,790
Total 0 $0 1 $8,834,790
Competitive Sealed Bid
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 2 $988,141 3 $4,943,248
DCAS 62 $448,455,550 62 $747,498,411
DDC 75 $1,068,372,126 65 $1,255,991,973
DEP 49 $2,449,598,869 54 $815,580,629
DHS 2 $11,412,289 4 $16,153,212
DOC 0 $0 2 $8,950,810
DOE 6 $147,912,898 7 $120,210,706
DOF 3 $5,481,355 0 $0
DOHMH 9 $60,855,978 2 $14,648,000
DOT 12 $187,986,098 29 $480,784,142
DPR 86 $401,807,086 74 $491,395,424
DSNY 14 $108,985,079 19 $155,479,239
FDNY 3 $27,551,581 9 $65,295,776
HPD 41 $10,543,087 40 $21,081,352
HRA 2 $4,353,050 2 $8,000,000
NYPD 0 $0 4 $12,616,295
Total 366 $4,934,303,186 376 $4,218,629,217
<<<PAGE 510>>>
Page 498  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Construction Change Order
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
DCAS 39 $62,654,190 40 $32,638,284
DDC 696 $48,008,996 668 $118,194,435
DEP 173 $23,333,891 226 $117,353,451
DHS 30 $2,347,038 15 $1,350,607
DOC 0 $0 2 $6,245,121
DOE 0 $0 4 $52,351,735
DOHMH 4 $1,016,534 1 $7,486
DOT 94 $126,674,792 96 $35,567,508
DPR 339 $76,980,936 346 $64,345,348
DSNY 28 $3,808,007 24 -$2,853,201
FDNY 28 $18,552,871 20 $2,924,575 
HPD 13 $25,467,267 28 ($11,922,454)
HRA 0 $0 1 $207,063 
NYPD 2 $322,198 1 $767,109 
SBS 10 $10,426,107 20 $14,390,064 
Total 1,456 $399,592,825 1,492 $431,567,129
Demonstration Project
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
DCAS 0 $0 1 $4,338,166
DFTA 1 $1,181,250 1 $500,000
DOF 1 $2 0 $0
DOHMH 1 $1,750,000 0 $0
DOT 1 $1 0 $0
Total 4 $2,931,253 2 $4,838,166
Design Change Order
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 1 $100,000 0 $0 
DCAS 2 $2,973,500 4 $214,059 
DCP 12 $8,927,368 3 $4,088,065 
DDC 132 $58,403,899 189 $62,360,638 
DEP 38 $33,534,600 35 $59,631,748 
DHS 0 $0 1 $306,900 
DOB 1 $36,000 0 $0 
DOC 1 $500,000 0 $0 
DOT 23 $34,591,792 31 $849,104,164 
DPR 47 $15,934,333 54 $8,374,282 
DSNY 4 ($3,548,373) 4 $1,664,097 
FDNY 2 ($16,344,299) 0 $0 
HPD 1 ($70,580) 2 ($261,875)
Law 0 $0 1 ($100,443)
Total 264 $135,038,241 324 $985,381,635 
<<<PAGE 511>>>
AGENCY PROCUREMENT ACTIONS BY METHOD  |  Page 499
Emergency
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 1 $7,398,376 0 $0
DCAS 1 $56,000 1 $2,807,103
DDC 0 $0 1 $34,707,155
DEP 3 $16,909,900 6 $83,645,742
DHS 33 $492,280,924 1 $7,857,511
DOB 2 $501,878 2 $1,196,400
DOC 0 $0 1 $2,076,504
DOE 2 $5,000,000 1 $6,378,923
DSNY 0 $0 6 $52,397,508
HPD 58 $52,064,402 41 $18,149,599
HRA 3 $748,155,929 0 $0
NYCEM 2 $3,500,000 1 $3,297,120
NYPD 0 $0 5 $4,385,333
Total 105 $1,325,867,409 66 $216,898,897
Government-to-Government Purchase
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 0 $0 1 $138,981
DCAS 2 $38,070 2 $13,670,677
DEP 11 $122,193,468 9 $125,025,402
DOC 1 $10,980,000 0 $0
DOE 1 $897,600 1 $7,918,174
DOHMH 3 $954,973 3 $3,078,424
DOT 1 $78,100 2 $900,000
DPR 1 $76,177 5 $237,117
HPD 1 $13,499,567 0 $0
HRA 1 $65,500 0 $0
Total 22 $148,783,455 23 $150,968,775
Innovative
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
DCAS 0 $0 3 $22,843,430
DDC 18 $10,976,091,573 2 $349,200
DEP 0 $0 1 $185,000,000
DOE 1 $820,741 0 $0
Total 19 $10,976,912,314 6 $208,192,630
<<<PAGE 512>>>
Page 500  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Intergovernmental
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 13 $1,199,078 4 $2,342,487
DCAS 26 $56,238,392 29 $45,711,045
DCP 3 $163,889 1 $110,386
DDC 2 $98,294 3 $3,702,512
DCWP 0 $0 1 $28,959
DEP 5 $5,029,083 7 $2,747,905
DFTA 0 $0 1 $226,520
DHS 6 $4,189,840 2 $3,983,369
DOB 0 $0 1 $1,600,000
DOC 2 $191,948 5 $3,665,787
DOE 22 $248,867,213 10 $61,190,827
DOF 3 $288,643 0 $0
DOHMH 7 $93,319,846 4 $9,712,566
DOI 1 $118,363 0 $0
DOT 2 $2,078,902 5 $30,827,714
DPR 1 $94,586 5 $228,568
DSNY 1 $40,166 0 $0
DYCD 0 $0 4 $303,027
FDNY 12 $1,272,943 14 $2,638,233
HPD 4 $37,305,168 2 $9,840,415
HRA 33 $36,950,073 68 $82,439,399
Law 0 $0 1 $487,379
NYCEM 3 $315,426 8 $1,966,261
NYPD 12 $17,434,281 14 $107,014,925
OATH 1 $3,553,939 0 $0
OTI 3 $3,977,843 2 $67,745,510 
SBS 2 $46,650 0 $0
TLC 1 $50,264 0 $0
Total 165 $512,824,829 191 $438,513,792
Line-Item Appropriation
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 1 $348,750 0 $0
DCLA 2 $2,283,000 2 $3,054,048
DDC 45 $21,508,207 46 $15,020,195
DFTA 138 $41,226,814 41 $5,483,302
DHS 9 $6,006,248 2 $88,750
DOE 25 $24,295,333 16 $24,108,749
DOHMH 83 $113,460,054 27 $38,627,781
DPR 28 $9,284,375 2 $173,500
DSNY 10 $19,447,500 41 $12,561,927
DVS 2 $37,500 3 $2,090,625
DYCD 744 $312,149,250 563 $117,701,012
FDNY 21 $1,722,375 7 $327,914
HPD 49 $16,728,151 76 $41,459,242
HRA 62 $54,498,765 49 $53,509,449
OTI 0 $0 1 $34,999
<<<PAGE 513>>>
AGENCY PROCUREMENT ACTIONS BY METHOD  |  Page 501
SBS 120 $68,176,396 18 $5,465,693
Total 1339 $691,172,717 894 $319,707,185
Listing Application
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
DOE 22 $69,018,121 25 $26,165,906
Total 22 $69,018,121 25 $26,165,906
Micropurchase
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 454 $3,585,863 408 $3,512,944
BIC 30 $63,752 36 $83,039
CCHR 70 $534,358 94 $535,047
CCRB 40 $205,316 52 $190,406
DCWP 49 $232,345 157 $902,430
DCAS 377 $2,037,715 375 $1,857,916
DCLA 56 $229,892 73 $202,429
DCP 105 $485,032 101 $507,281
DDC 138 $882,664 122 $769,079
DEP 1750 $19,371,585 1785 $19,716,649
DFTA 193 $669,669 248 $788,051
DHS 45 $379,718 64 $671,783
DOB 183 $1,021,564 156 $751,399
DOC 702 $8,517,307 748 $8,239,853
DOF 124 $965,843 163 $1,230,383
DOHMH 910 $10,665,239 935 $8,904,889
DOI 168 $1,002,630 145 $870,541
DOP 183 $947,538 158 $926,196
DORIS 144 $498,701 102 $471,035
DOT 675 $8,157,205 676 $8,273,783
DPR 1002 $7,850,715 976 $9,000,505
DSNY 675 $4,619,289 648 $3,973,434
DVS 74 $840,669 42 $263,011
DYCD 393 $1,799,430 342 $1,586,303
FDNY 117 $1,697,270 100 $1,495,923
HPD 17339 $23,757,132 17989 $20,772,337
HRA 228 $2,138,448 155 $1,558,859
Law 303 $494,920 294 $515,916
LPC 60 $569,270 49 $399,936
NYCEM 293 $1,756,571 267 $1,508,784
NYPD 2748 $15,539,976 2473 $14,937,116
OATH 71 $301,329 90 $322,643
OTI 253 $2,001,382 241 $1,984,534
SBS 53 $441,564 50 $335,672
TLC 103 $701,856 128 $938,754
Total 30,108 $124,963,757 30442 $118,998,859
<<<PAGE 514>>>
Page 502  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
M/WBE Noncompetitive Small Purchase Method
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 57 $9,676,804 66 $10,515,085
BIC 0 $0 1 $203,460
CCHR 2 $184,071 1 $202,294
CCRB 2 $207,287 5 $957,032
DCWP 9 $1,459,740 14 $2,705,550
DCAS 70 $14,793,146 67 $18,214,767
DCLA 8 $2,820,483 6 $3,969,563
DCP 2 $322,235 5 $522,931
DDC 16 $3,865,638 16 $5,625,423
DEP 78 $22,943,401 66 $19,054,582
DFTA 6 $478,946 4 $526,320
DHS 11 $4,927,552 19 $2,627,622
DOB 5 $1,469,930 8 $715,575
DOC 39 $22,072,719 51 $25,148,274
DOE 28 $16,979,914 19 $14,489,050
DOF 22 $6,378,490 16 $4,239,607
DOHMH 75 $53,511,138 52 $31,545,921
DOI 1 $41,560 1 $222,833
DOP 6 $2,562,423 0 $0
DOT 94 $44,276,620 88 $36,964,941
DPR 44 $21,144,853 36 $13,479,792
DSNY 36 $19,049,607 37 $25,608,931
DVS 1 $29,830 0 $0
DYCD 29 $5,598,737 29 $4,268,139
FDNY 62 $21,170,765 62 $15,987,254
HPD 8 $1,387,723 10 $1,299,476
HRA 34 $6,038,211 54 $9,623,547
Law 5 $4,460,080 1 $1,447,364
LPC 1 $22,500 5 $318,518
NYCEM 16 $3,541,022 6 $767,794
NYPD 15 $5,209,010 20 $5,104,163
OATH 8 $524,185 10 $830,194
OTI 159 $43,155,118 154 $43,880,856
SBS 14 $2,386,145 16 $1,486,936
TLC 4 $1,184,451 8 $1,952,348
Total 967 $343,874,334 953 $304,506,144
<<<PAGE 515>>>
AGENCY PROCUREMENT ACTIONS BY METHOD  |  Page 503
Negotiated Acquisition
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 3 $17,889,632 10 $50,037,405
DCWP 1 $69,796 0 $0
DCAS 8 $114,948,000 1 $95,000
DCP 2 $150,000 0 $0
DEP 1 $17,462,654 1 $5,642,800
DFTA 0 $0 4 $17,381,673
DHS 1 $929,104,934 0 $0
DOB 1 $26,399,998 0 $0
DOC 3 $1,043,250 2 $876,373
DOE 16 $51,336,327 90 $144,411,194
DOHMH 25 $154,128,296 34 $239,292,819
DOI 2 $15,841,491 0 $0
DOP 0 $0 1 $468,750
DOT 1 $1,200,000 2 $16,864,000
DPR 2 $3,543,742 0 $0
DSNY 0 $0 3 $52,358,398
DVS 0 $0 1 $450,000
DYCD 74 $172,068,187 194 $96,576,593
HPD 3 $12,930,480 2 $86,616,988
HRA 42 $148,750,012 1 $4,257,717
Law 46 $33,008,479 64 $73,361,379
SBS 0 $0 1 $8,597,000
OTI 3 $66,794,423 1 $2,631,342
TLC 0 $0 1 $1,622,660
Total 234 $1,766,669,701 413 $801,542,090
Negotiated Acquisition Extension
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 10 $18,394,984 12 $6,329,668
DCWP 0 $0 0 $0
DCAS 3 $550,001 2 $1,500,001
DEP 1 $799,960 1 $1,271,272
DFTA 6 $4,226,932 0 $0
DHS 23 $472,213,124 16 $219,893,788
DOC 0 $0 1 $3,941,456
DOF 0 $0 1 $2,076,192
DOHMH 17 $17,464,665 29 $8,696,581
DOP 1 $4,274,907 4 $1,193,458
DYCD 501 $1,234,346,495 146 $499,292,026
FDNY 3 $19,541,190 2 $7,861,483
HPD 0 $0 1 $243,973
HRA 39 $100,875,180 81 $114,443,622
Law 19 $20,556,000 5 $5,369,825
NYPD 1 $481,066 1 $780,000
SBS 29 $57,527,918 20 $6,704,587
Total 653 $1,951,252,422 322 $879,597,933
<<<PAGE 516>>>
Page 504  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Renewal
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 27 $109,596,502 187 $4,006,626,775
CCRB 0 $0 1 $37,080
DCWP 2 $38,139,000 2 $109,000
DCAS 18 $224,186,230 30 $253,152,084
DCP 1 $99,000 0 $0
DDC 1 $150,000 5 $11,100,000
DEP 25 $89,758,278 37 $128,162,002
DFTA 141 $486,166,757 170 $477,345,303
DHS 33 $960,928,701 57 $2,033,085,796
DOB 3 $4,030,511 1 $1,198,125
DOC 5 $2,204,287 10 $7,380,332
DOE 524 $1,035,590,190 273 $693,329,773
DOF 4 $3,574,538 8 $23,871,743
DOHMH 12 $49,805,779 14 $88,276,715
DOP 31 $14,127,080 4 $1,945,851
DOT 29 $136,105,435 21 $151,781,948
DPR 0 $0 2 $9,377,803
DSNY 6 $8,801,899 6 $36,086,492
DVS 3 $610,000 2 $500,000
DYCD 77 $200,594,058 43 $154,143,949
HPD 6 $22,740,879 12 $31,011,039
HRA 28 $250,519,632 86 $242,860,337
Law 1 $1,125,000 1 $446,000
NYCEM 7 $90,002,867 2 $70,000,000
NYPD 15 $96,601,836 14 $106,289,595
OATH 1 $371,672 0 $0
OTI 6 $34,470,366 13 $885,645,251
SBS 1 800,000 1 $599,800
TLC 1 286,250 1 $456,946
Total 1008 3,861,386,748 1003 $9,414,819,739
<<<PAGE 517>>>
AGENCY PROCUREMENT ACTIONS BY METHOD  |  Page 505
Request for Proposal
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 5 $27,880,010 20 $109,844,205
DCAS 2 $28,560,835 0 $0
DDC 8 $300,711,521 3 $37,013,878
DEP 19 $184,665,234 13 $159,367,342
DFTA 17 $229,726,797 12 $60,450,535
DHS 28 $2,365,365,515 31 $2,590,059,665
DOB 3 $8,998,541 0 $0
DOE 94 $98,785,200 60 $82,355,909
DOF 0 $0 4 $123,259,685
DOHMH 40 $822,591,857 44 $887,303,952
DOT 7 $47,574,459 8 $1,046,569,810
DPR 0 $0 2 $947,732
DSNY 2 $14,429,188 4 $16,970,000
DYCD 78 $195,669,566 21 $66,704,733
FDNY 3 $25,903,582 4 $119,733,687
HPD 11 $26,043,171 5 $59,044,213
HRA 76 $2,067,758,042 102 $482,773,331
Law 0 $0 0 $0
NYCEM 2 $10,750,000 0 $0
NYPD 0 $0 1 $567,000
OTI 1 $100,000 0 $0
SBS 0 $0 11 $147,252,150
Total 396 $6,455,513,518 345 $5,990,217,825
Required Source or Procurement Method
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 1 $74,619 1 $5,164,705
CCHR 0 $0 1 $42,813
DCP 1 $73,375 0 $0
DCWP 1 $60,854 1 $75,000
DEP 4 $228,292,683 5 $12,598,719
DFTA 5 $4,352,584 28 $5,894,401
DHS 2 $73,207,257 0 $0
DOE 45 $60,351,920 4 $3,973,311
DOF 3 $13,788,238 2 $114,743
DOHMH 33 $423,013,578 32 $470,632,775
DOP 0 $0 1 $91,220
DORIS 1 $347,190 0 $0
DOT 1 $4,269,859 0 $0
DPR 1 $74,999 1 $65,000
DYCD 1 $375,000 1 $75,000
FDNY 1 $52,155 1 $99,999
HPD 1 $1,509,904 1 $856,000
HRA 26 $54,619,433 16 $64,774,322
Law 1 $1,439,559 0 $0
OTI 1 $24,517 2 $115,058
Total 128 $865,903,207 97 $564,573,064
<<<PAGE 518>>>
Page 506  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Small Purchase
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 9 $1,406,025 6 $580,000
BIC 0 $0 1 $150
CCRB 14 $163,853 15 $230,369
DCWP 3 $153,122 3 $246,948
DDC 2 $118,200 1 $21,609
DEP 23 $1,852,847 13 $982,041
DFTA 0 $0 1 $100,000
DHS 9 $771,390 7 $485,443
DOC 20 $1,812,729 16 $1,229,526
DOE 156631 $458,566,383 167,551 $499,568,197
DOF 1 $67,200 5 $225,352
DOHMH 15 $1,224,832 25 $2,102,771
DOI 16 $963,851 20 $1,032,787
DOP 19 $470,792 12 $277,132
DOT 27 $2,076,292 21 $1,692,583
DPR 75 $3,214,347 61 $3,068,207
DSNY 9 $900,000 8 $800,000
DYCD 6 $123,730 2 $99,557
FDNY 6 $339,864 4 $396,422
HPD 17 $1,524,787 17 $1,460,409
HRA 17 $1,172,813 9 $535,445
Law 1 $13,000 0 $0
NYCEM 5 $396,818 2 $158,500
NYPD 205 $10,288,238 206 $10,200,584
OTI 2 $197,750 0 $0
SBS 5 $97,912 0 $0
TLC 1 $100,000 1 $100,000
Total 157138 $488,016,775 168,007 $525,594,030
<<<PAGE 519>>>
AGENCY PROCUREMENT ACTIONS BY METHOD  |  Page 507
Sole Source
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 5 $3,693,460 1 $1,164,300
DCLA 31 $25,682,665 1 $313,572
DCWP 0 $0 1 $99,000
DEP 15 $13,032,526 11 $66,734,802
DHS 0 $0 1 $212,700
DOC 2 $848,188 1 $58,726
DOE 0 $0 1 $117,515,741
DOF 4 $3,591,159 2 $2,922,299
DOHMH 12 $22,771,410 10 $18,638,502
DOI 1 $57,000 1 $99,000
DOP 2 $380,000 0 $0
DORIS 0 $0 1 $107,643
DOT 2 $7,749,192 0 $0
DPR 1 $563,954 2 $1,978,463
DSNY 1 $608,649 1 $51,894
DYCD 1 $40,000 0 $0
FDNY 5 $11,298,935 5 $23,358,834
HPD 2 $188,993 4 $1,909,091
HRA 4 $394,900 6 $2,531,310
Law 1 $150,772 0 $0
NYCEM 2 $1,150,170 0 $0
NYPD 6 $45,814,497 6 $68,730,176
OTI 2 $1,802,811 1 $4,217,436
SBS 3 $1,318,049,750 5 $2,574,820,032
Total 102 $1,457,869,031 61 $2,885,463,521
<<<PAGE 520>>>
Page 508  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Task Order
Agency Fiscal 2025 Fiscal 2026
Count
 
Value Count
 
Value
ACS 2 $2,664,000 7 $25,285,507
CCHR 2 $130,000 1 $270,000
DCWP 3 $586,000 4 $1,271,000
DCLA 0 $0 1 $100,000
DCP 2 $1,676,251 1 $80,000
DDC 169 $296,712,452 149 $298,584,387
DEP 15 $37,189,761 12 $13,293,795
DFTA 5 $290,671 5 $1,476,000
DHS 1 $88,335 4 $236,785
DOB 0 $0 1 $20,000
DOC 19 $45,324,867 16 $55,847,370
DOF 1 $185,000 4 $17,243,109
DOHMH 9 $6,825,000 16 $14,400,000
DOP 1 $46,193 1 $50,000
DOT 41 $22,839,672 46 $64,616,344
DPR 117 $84,960,221 93 $93,720,955
DSNY 1 $2,000,000 1 $150,000
DYCD 2 $350,000 5 $609,787
FDNY 33 $18,247,541 33 $17,898,693
HPD 3 $31,035,319 3 $1,300,992
HRA 6 $5,041,622 10 $12,570,896
Law 3 $3,926,000 1 $100,000
NYCEM 4 $519,060 4 $849,511
NYPD 3 $2,275,584 6 $11,486,312
OATH 0 $0 1 $150,000
OTI 1 $523,004 13 $25,497,092
SBS 3 $610,000 3 $575,000
TLC 0 $0 1 $25,000
Total 446 $564,046,555 442 $657,708,536
<<<PAGE 521>>>
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CITYWIDE STATEMENT OF NEEDS  |  Page 509
MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
STATUS OF PROPOSALS 
FY 2027–2028 CITYWIDE STATEMENT OF NEEDS 
Pursuant to Sections 12(c) and 204(h) of the New York City Charter, this section includes a review of the implementation of 
the Citywide Statement of Needs. The Citywide Statement of Needs outlines plans for the creation, expansion, or reduction 
of City facilities. The information contained in this review is provided by the proposing entities and the Department of 
Citywide Administrative Services.
STATUS DEFINITIONS
Implemented    Proposal for which a ULURP or Section 195 application received final approval; or for which a 
contract for operation of a facility was approved; or for which a facility was located in existing city 
space; or for which an expansion, reduction or closing was completed. 
In Progress    ULURP or Section 195 application filed but not yet approved; or contractor selected but contract 
has not yet received final approval; or expansion/reduction of existing site is underway. 
Ongoing    Proposal for which the City is still actively seeking a site for a facility, or a ULURP or Section 195 
application has not yet been filed or a contractor has not been selected. 
Modified    Proposal was modified and is included in this Statement or will be included in a later Statement. 
Cancelled    City not actively seeking site or implementing proposal because of fiscal or programmatic 
considerations.
<<<PAGE 522>>>
Page 510  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Agency/Proposal Proposed Location Status
ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN'S SERVICES (ACS)
Expansion of Horizon Juvenile Detention Center 560 Brook Ave, Bronx, NY 10455 (CD 1) Ongoing
Expansion of Crossroads Juvenile Detention Center 17 Bristol St, Brooklyn, NY 11212 (CD 16) Ongoing
Relocation of Division of Child Protection Offices - Queens Queens (CD 6, 7, 1, 8, 11, 12, 13) Ongoing
Relocation of Child Protection Services/Units Queens (CD 1) Ongoing
Relocation of Staten Island Division of Child Protection and Youth Family Justice Not yet specified in Staten Island Ongoing
Relocation from 350 St Marks Place Not yet specified on Staten Island Ongoing
BRONX COMMUNITY BOARD (CB) 3
Relocation of Bronx Community Board (CB) 3 Office Bronx (CD 3) Ongoing
BRONX COMMUNITY BOARD (CB) 8
Relocation of Community Board (CB) 8 Office 3128 Bailey Avenue, Bronx, NY 10463 (CD 8) Ongoing
BRONX DISTRICT ATTORNEY (DA-BX)
Expansion of File Storage Space Not yet specified Ongoing
New Space Request for Expansion of CJRI Program Not yet specified in the Bronx Ongoing
BROOKLYN COMMUNITY BOARD (CB) 6
Relocation of Community Board (CB) 6 Office Brooklyn (CD 6) Ongoing
BROOKLYN COMMUNITY BOARD (CB) 9
Relocation from 890 Nostrand Ave Not yet specified in Brooklyn Ongoing
BROOKLYN COMMUNITY BOARD (CB) 13
Relocation of Community Board (CB) 13 Office 1919 Surf Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11224 (CD 13) Ongoing
BROOKLYN COMMUNITY BOARD (CB) 16
Relocation of Community Board (CB) 16 Office Brooklyn (CD 16) Ongoing
BROOKLYN DISTRICT ATTORNEY (DA-BK)
Expansion of Brooklyn DA's Office Space 335 Adams Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201 (CD 2) Ongoing
New Space Request at 350 Jay Street, 8th floor 350 Jay St, Brooklyn, NY 11201 Ongoing
New request for IT Data Center Not yet specified in Brookllyn Ongoing
BROOKLYN PUBLIC LIBRARY (BPL)
Expansion of BPL's New Lots Avenue Branch 665 New Lots Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11207 (CD 5) Ongoing
Expansion of BPL's Canarsie Branch 1570-80 Rockaway Parkway, Brooklyn, NY 11236 (CD 
18)
Ongoing
CAMPAIGN FINANCE BOARD (CFB)
Relocation from 80 Maiden Lane, 17th Floor 15 Metrotech Brooklyn, NY 11201 Ongoing
CITY COUNCIL (NYCC)
Expansion of Basement for Printing Center 250 Broadway, Basement, New York, NY 10007 (CD 1) Ongoing
DEPARTMENT FOR THE AGING (DFTA)
Relocation of Older Adult Center from 100 Gold Street, Ground Floor - acquisition Not yet specified in Manhattan Ongoing
DEPARTMENT OF CULTURAL AFFAIRS (DCLA)
New Space Request for DCLA's Studio Museum 144 West 125th Street, NY 10027 (CD 10) Implemented
New Space Request for DCLA's Noel Printer Foundation 299 DeGraw Street, Brooklyn, NY 11231 (CD 6) Ongoing
<<<PAGE 523>>>
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CITYWIDE STATEMENT OF NEEDS  |  Page 511
Agency/Proposal Proposed Location Status
DEPARTMENT OF DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION (DDC)
Additional space at 30-30 Thomson Avenue 30-30 Thomson Avenue, LIC, NY 11101 
1st Floor
Ongoing
DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (DOE)
Relocation from 100 Gold Street, p/o 3rd and p/o 4th floors Not yet specified in Manhattan Ongoing
DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (DEP)
New Hutchinson River CSO Retention Facility 1675 East 233rd Street  
Bronx, NY 10466 (CD 12)
In Progress
Relocation of BCS, BWSO, BEC Offices 345 Adams Street, Brooklyn, NY 11201 (CD 2) Implemented
New Flushing Creek CSO Disinfection Facilities – TI-010 Dichlorination Facility Northeast corner of Flushing Meadows Corona Park 
adjacent to Allied 3 Building, Queens, NY  
Block: 2018, Lot:1 
or 
131-33 Avery Avenue 
Queens, NY 11355 (CD 7) 
Block: 5066, Lot: 47
Implemented
New Stormwater Pump Stations - Rockaway HFFRRF Queens (CD 14) In Progress
Relocation of St. Albans Pumping Station Borough Block Lot (BBL) 10301 28 Queens, CD 12 Ongoing
New Space Request for Newtown Creek CSO Storage Tunnel Brooklyn, Queens Implemented
Relocation for parking (250 Livingston Street) 2 Metrotech, Brooklyn, NY 11201 Ongoing
DEPARTMENT OF HOMELESS SERVICES (DHS)
Relocation of Distribution and Fleet Services Brooklyn Ongoing
New Transitional Shelter Facilities for Homeless Individuals and Families Not yet specified Ongoing
Relocation from 33 Beaver Street Not yet specified in Manhattan Ongoing
Relocation of HVAC Unit from 116 Williams Avenue Not yet specified in Brooklyn Ongoing
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING PRESERVATION & DEVELOPMENT (HPD)
Relocation of Code Enforcement and Canine Unit Manhattan (CD 10) Ongoing
Relocation of 3280 Broadway Upper Manhattan Code Office Manhattan (CD 6) Implemented
Relocation of Northern Manhattan Code Enforcement Units Manhattan Ongoing
Relocation from 100 Gold Street per Mayor/EDC Initiative Not yet specified in Manhattan Ongoing
DEPARTMENT OF MENTAL HEALTH AND HYGIENE (DOHMH)
Closure of DOHMH Manhattanville Facility  160 West 100th Street, New York, NY 10025 (CD 7) Ongoing
Relocation of Vector and Pest Control Services 2500 Halsey St, Bronx, NY 10461 (CD 10) Ongoing
DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION (DPR)
Relocation from 100 Gold Street, 3rd floor Not yet specified in Manhattan Ongoing
New request for repair facility for vehicles in Staten Island 336-346 Meredith Avenue, Staten Island 10314 Ongoing
New space request at 88-11 165th Street for lockers in HRA space 88-11 165th Street, Jamaica, NY 11432 Ongoing
DEPARTMENT OF PROBATION (DOP)
Relocation of Bedford-Stuyvesant NeON Office Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, NY (CD 3) Ongoing
Expansion of Queens Borough Office  162-24 Jamaica Avenue, Queens, NY 11432 (CD 12) Ongoing
<<<PAGE 524>>>
Page 512  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Agency/Proposal Proposed Location Status
DEPARTMENT OF SANITATION (DSNY)
Relocation of Bronx 3A Broom Garage Bronx (CD 3) Ongoing
Relocation of Bronx 9/10/11 Garage Bronx CDs (9, 10, and 11) Ongoing
Relocation of Bronx Lot Cleaning Unit Bronx Ongoing
Consolidation of Garages, Broom Depot, and Manhattan Borough Command 425 East 25 Street, New York, NY 10010 (CD 6) Ongoing
Relocation of District Garage 31-11 20th Avenue, Queens, NY 11105 (CD 1) Ongoing
New Dual-District Garage 1323 West Service Road, Staten Island, NY 10309 (CD 3) Implemented
Relocation of Bronx District 2 Garage Bronx (CD 2) Ongoing
Relocation of Greenpoint Warehouse Brooklyn Ongoing
Expansion request for additional ~25,000 SF for parking near M9 garage 336-346 Meredith Ave, Staten Island, NY 10314 Ongoing
Relocation from 616 Casanova Avenue 690 Casanova St, Bronx, NY 10474 Ongoing
DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (DOT)
Expansion and Relocation of Citywide Concrete Program - Bronx 4855 Baldwin Street, Bronx, NY 10470 (CD 12) Ongoing
Expansion of Sidewalk Inspection Management - Fleet Support 151 South Macquesten Ave, Bronx, NY 10550 (CD 12) Ongoing
Relocation of Bridges Preventative Maintenance Unit 4855 Baldwin Street, Bronx, NY 10470 (CD 12) Implemented
Expansion and Relocation of Citywide Concrete Program - Brooklyn 688 Court Street, Brooklyn, NY 11231 (CD 2) Ongoing
New Sidewalk Inspection Management Field Office -  Green Wave Program 688 Court Street, Brooklyn, NY 11231 (CD 2) Ongoing
Relocation of Brooklyn Sign Shop 688 Court Street, Brooklyn, NY 11231 (CD 2) Ongoing
Relocation of Sidewalk Inspection Management - Concrete Crushing 46-81 Metropolitan Avenue, Queens, NY 11385 (CD 5) Ongoing
New Field Office for Green Wave Program 31-08 Northern Blvd, Queens, NY 11101 (CD 1) Ongoing
Relocation of Traffic Management Center 315 East 149th Street, Bronx, NY 10451 (CD 1) Cancelled
New request for lease at 688 Court Street (Industrial Space) Not yet specified in Brooklyn Ongoing
Relocation from 59 Maiden Lane, 34th and 35th 1 Centre Street, New York, NY 10007 Ongoing
FIRE DEPARTMENT (FDNY)
New request for storage space at 66-26 Metropolitan Avenue 66-26 Metropolitan Ave, Middle Village, NY 11379 Ongoing
Relocate from Queens 49 Street Lot BBL:4-2575-26 49th St, Maspeth, NY 11378 Ongoing
HUMAN RESOURCE ADMINISTRATION (HRA)
Relocation of Bainbridge Job Center Bronx (CD 6) Ongoing
Relocation of Programs from 33-28 Northern Blvd. Queens (CD 2) Ongoing
Relocation of  HASA/APS office Not yet specified in Manhattan Ongoing
Relocation of HRA HASA Manhattan Facililty 400 8th Avenue, New York NY 10001 (CD 5) Ongoing
Relocation of HRA's Administrative Offices TBD Ongoing
Relocation from 33-00 Northern Blvd, Queens 31-00 47th Ave, LIC, NY 11101 Ongoing
Early Termination 88 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn Not yet specified in Brooklyn Ongoing
Relocation from 400 8th Avenue Not yet specified Ongoing
Relocation from 151 W Broadway, Manhattan 250 Broadway, New York, NY 10007 Ongoing
Relocation from 88-11 165th Street Not yet specified in Queens Cancelled
Relocation from 33-28 Northern Blvd, Queens 31-00 47th Ave, LIC, NY 11101 Ongoing
MANHATTAN COMMUNITY BOARD (CB) 7
Relocation from 250 W 87th Street Not yet specified in Manhattan Ongoing
MAYORS OFFICE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE (MOCJ)
Request for additional space in City-owned property in Staten Island Staten Island (CD 1) Ongoing
Request for new space at 100 Centre Street 100 Centre St, New York, NY 10007 Ongoing
Expansion at 125-01 Queens Blvd 125-01 Queens Blvd, Kew Gardens, NY 11415 Ongoing
Expansion for additional space at 265 East 161st Street 265 E 161st St, Bronx, NY 10451 Ongoing
Expansion for additional space at 100 or 111 Centre Street 100 or 111 Centre St, New York, NY 10007 Ongoing
<<<PAGE 525>>>
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CITYWIDE STATEMENT OF NEEDS  |  Page 513
Agency/Proposal Proposed Location Status
MAYORS OFFICE OF ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY (MOEO)
Relocation from 1 MTC into 1 Pierrepont Plaza, 4th Floor (LAW space) 1 Pierrepont Plaza, Brooklyn, NY 11201 Ongoing
MAYORS OFFICE OF MEDIA AND ENTERTAINMENT (MOME)
Relocation of Press Credentials Office Lower Manhattan Ongoing
Relocation of TV and Radio Master Control Downtown Brooklyn In Progress
NEW YORK CITY POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYPD)
Relocation of Bronx Tow Pound Fordham Landing, Bronx (CD 7) Ongoing
Relocation of Special Victims Offices - Brooklyn 45 Nevins Street, Brooklyn, NY 11217 (CD 2) Ongoing
Relocation of Pier 76 Tow Pound Manhattan Ongoing
Relocation of Service Station 8 27-10 49th Avenue, Queens, NY 11101 (CD 2) Ongoing
Relocation of Internal Affairs Bureau Groups Queens Ongoing
Relocation of Citywide Units Not yet specified Ongoing
Relocation of K9 Unit Not yet specified Ongoing
Relocation of Special Operations Division/Training Bureau Not yet specified Ongoing
Relocation of Transit District 33 Brooklyn Ongoing
Relocation of Manhattan North Manhattan (CD 10) Ongoing
Relocation of Internal Affairs Bureau Manhattan (CD 10) Ongoing
Consolidation of Staten Island Specialized Units 1441 South Ave (AKA Corporate Commons III), 6th 
Floor, Staten Island, NY 10314 (CD 2)
Ongoing
Relocation request to consolidate 3 IAB sites into 151 Maujer Street (City-owned property) 151 Maujer St, Brooklyn, NY 11206 Ongoing
New request for parking lot for Brooklyn and Queens Auto Pound System Not yet specified Ongoing
New request for parking in 103rd Precinct 90-01 168th St, Jamaica, NY 11432 Ongoing
OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE TRIALS AND HEARINGS (OATH)
Relocation of Hearings Center - Staten Island Staten Island Ongoing
OFFICE OF COURT ADMINISTRATION (OCA)
Relocation of Department Offices 1 Pierrepont Plaza, Brooklyn, NY 11201 (CD 2) Implemented
OFFICE OF COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (OCB)
Relocation from 100 Gold Street, 4th floor Not yet specified in Manhattan Ongoing
OFFICE OF THE MAYOR
Relocation from 100 Gold Street, Basement and 2nd floor Not yet specified in Manhattan Ongoing
Relocation of MOME at 1697 Broadway 120 Broadway, New York, NY 10004  Implemented
OFFICE OF TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION (DOITT/OTI)
Relocation of Citywide Service Desk and NYC3 Brooklyn In Progress
Relocation from 80 Maiden Lane into former HRA space at 15 Metrotech 15 Metrotech, Brooklyn, NY 11201 Ongoing
QUEENS DISTRICT ATTORNEY (DA-QN)
Expansion of Office Space 111-15 Queens Boulevard, Queens, NY 11375 (CD 6) Ongoing
New request for Lecture Hall and expansion of IT needs at 120-55 Queens Boulevard 120-55 Queens Blvd, Kew Gardens, NY 11424 Ongoing
New request for warehouse to store evidence Not yet specified in Queens Ongoing
TAXI AND LIMOUSINE COMMISSION (TLC)
Relocation of Headquarters 80 Pine Street, New York, NY 10005 (CD 1) Implemented
<<<PAGE 526>>>
Page 514  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 527>>>
AGENCY INTERNAL CONTROLS  |  Page 515
AGENCY INTERNAL CONTROLS
CITY CHARTER INTERNAL CONTROL REPORTING REQUIREMENT
Statements on the status of mayoral agencies’ internal control environments and systems for Fiscal 2025 and the actions 
taken or to be taken to strengthen such systems are set forth below, pursuant to Section 12(c)(3) of the New York City 
Charter. The Mayor’s Office of Risk Management and Compliance compiled these statements based upon reviews by 37 
mayoral agencies. The review encompassed internal control evaluations provided by the agencies, applicable State and 
City Comptrollers’ audit reports, and agency responses to such reports. The heads of those agencies attested to the status 
of their agencies’ internal control systems with respect to principal operations.
SUMMARY STATEMENTS ON THE STATUS OF INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
Agencies indicate that their systems of internal control, taken as a whole, are sufficient to meet the City’s internal control 
objectives of maximizing the effectiveness and integrity of operations and reducing vulnerability to waste, abuse and other 
errors or irregularities. Certain agencies identified areas that were sufficient, but with weaknesses, which are addressed 
below. These agencies are committed to pursuing applicable corrective actions and continuing to monitor their internal 
control systems.
Administration for Children’s Services
The Administration for Children’s Services (ACS) reports ongoing activities with respect to oversight and enhancement of 
its internal control environment. The agency reports continued efforts with respect to updating and strengthening systems 
technology including systems controls and security. ACS practice, written policies, and procedures are constantly evolving, 
and reports continued efforts to develop written policies and procedures with respect to child safety and welfare, under 
the guidance of federal, state, and local oversight. ACS will continue its course of corrective action and will monitor its 
overall internal control environment through its internal audit group, external audit follow-up and use of information 
technology systems.
Business Integrity Commission
The Business Integrity Commission (BIC) reports ongoing activities with respect to the review and oversight of its internal 
control environment through continued coordination with the NYC Office of Technology and Innovation and its Cyber 
Command to carry out the most current level of cyber-security and information technology protocols and procedures, 
including continued implementation of multi-factor authentication, as well as agency-wide cyber-security training. 
Additionally, BIC regularly monitors its internal control environment to strengthen and protect against vulnerabilities through 
self-assessment, management review, increased efficiency of operations, efforts to update and document policies and 
procedures to ensure continuity, and information technology controls as well as various reporting and training requirements.
City Commission on Human Rights
CCHR’s internal control environment is adequate and sufficient to maximize the integrity of its operations. The following 
are additional actions CCHR has taken in Fiscal Year 2025 and 2026 to strengthen its internal control environment and 
systems: implementation of new policies and procedures to ensure uninterrupted workflow and strengthen internal controls.
Civilian Complaint Review Board
The Civilian Complaint Review Board (CCRB) reports ongoing oversight and activities to strengthen its system of internal 
controls. CCRB reports continued efforts with respect to the segregation of responsibilities as well as the implementation 
of compensating controls over inventory. CCRB will continue to take appropriate corrective actions and will monitor its 
overall system of internal controls through internal reviews.
<<<PAGE 528>>>
Page 516  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Department of Citywide Administrative Services
The Department of Citywide Administrative Services (DCAS) reports ongoing oversight and continuation of activities to 
strengthen its internal control environment. These activities include maximizing the effectiveness and integrity of the agency’s 
operations and reducing the vulnerability of agency waste, abuse, errors, or irregularities, while adhering to all applicable 
rules, regulations, and laws. DCAS will continue to monitor its overall internal control environment through internal audits, 
corrective action initiatives, information technology and risk assessments, and external audit engagements.
Department of Cultural Affairs
The Department of Cultural Affairs (DCLA) continues to monitor its internal control environment through the ongoing 
evaluation of day to day operations, continuous assessment of agency processes and procedures, and through the use of 
information technology systems. In particular, with the assistance of OTI, DCLA continues to strengthen the security of its 
computing systems, increasing security and accessibility features of its Salesforce system and addressing new information 
technology compliance requirements.
Department of City Planning
The Department of City Planning (DCP) reports continued oversight and monitoring of its internal control environment 
to ensure effective and efficient agency operations. Furthermore, DCP can provide reasonable assurance that program 
goals and objectives were effectively met through outcomes that are measurable, such as positive customer feedback and 
agency targets. DCP will continue to monitor its internal control environment through risk assessments, follow-up activity 
on external audits, and ongoing management reviews.
Department of Consumer and Worker Protection
The Department of Consumer and Worker Protection (DCWP) reports on the continuation of oversight and activities with 
respect to maintaining an overall system of internal controls. The agency has continued to refine its IT applications to 
automate business processes, increase efficiency of operations and strengthen internal controls. DCWP will continue to 
monitor its internal control environment through internal process reviews and follow-up on external audits.
Department of Design and Construction
The Department of Design and Construction reports continuing oversight and activities to support and strengthen its 
internal control environment. Ongoing activities include inspections and audits of construction projects to further improve 
site safety and work quality, providing a safe and secure technology environment, and staff training. DDC will continue the 
present course of action and will continue to monitor its overall internal control environment through ongoing oversight, 
internal reviews, and external audit follow-ups.
Department of Environmental Protection
The Department of Environmental Protection (DEP) reports ongoing activities with respect to oversight and monitoring of 
its internal control environment, including efforts to fully implement computerized maintenance management systems with 
inventory control modules that support wastewater resource recovery facilities. Further, DEP reports ongoing improvements 
relative to asset management and inventory controls for computers and related equipment. The agency will continue to 
monitor its overall internal control environment through risk assessments, internal audits, and external audit follow-up.
Department for the Aging
The Department for the Aging (DFTA) continues to strengthen its internal control environment through enhanced fiscal 
oversight, risk monitoring, and process improvements. During the reporting period of Fiscal Year 2025, DFTA enhanced OIT 
operations, reporting, analytics, audit and compliance, and fiscal operations, including the successful transition from STARS 
to VIVE client tracking system. The agency expanded training and technical assistance for VIVE users and strengthened 
data analytics to improve program monitoring and performance. DFTA continued to strengthen its audit and compliance 
oversight through organizational enhancements that support monitoring, internal controls testing, and accountability. 
DFTA will continue to evaluate and strengthen internal controls through ongoing testing, management review, monitoring 
activities, and field audits to promote accountability and operational effectiveness.
<<<PAGE 529>>>
AGENCY INTERNAL CONTROLS  |  Page 517
Department of Buildings
The Department of Buildings (DOB) reports continued oversight and monitoring with respect to its internal control 
environment; specifically, DOB reports ongoing substantive reviews of current operations and implementation of procedural 
changes, updating technology to support data classification and encryption. The Agency’s disaster recovery plan is not fully 
in compliance with the Comptroller’s Directive, as the Agency’s plan is being developed as part of the Agency’s long-term 
infrastructure upgrade, which is currently in progress. Additionally, the department will continue to use and expand the DOB 
NOW online platform to improve services and reporting, including but not limited to, job filing, inspections, and licensing. 
The agency will continue its course of corrective action with the objective of maximizing the effectiveness and integrity of 
operations while reducing the vulnerability of agency waste, abuse, errors, or irregularities through ongoing monitoring of 
its internal control systems, internal audits, and external audit follow-up activity and risk assessments.
Department of Correction
In Fiscal Year 2025, the Department of Correction continued making significant strides in strengthening its internal control 
environment by leveraging technology, updating policies, and modernizing procedures. Progress included emergency 
tabletop exercises, implementation of NYC Comptroller Audit recommendations, and centralizing oversight of all the 
agency’s cashier operations at the court commands under the Finance Division. While work remains in areas such as IT 
enhancements and efforts to reduce the reliance on paper-based processes, we are steadfast in our mission to improve 
internal controls and mitigate risk. As DOC continues building towards the Borough-based jails system, we will monitor our 
internal control environment through the internal audit review unit, internal assessments, and collaboration with oversight 
partners to ensure we are creating a sustainable, fair, and efficient system for all.
Department of Homeless Services
The Department of Homeless Services (DHS) reports that its internal control environment is adequate, effective and designed 
to ensure the integrity and efficiency of operations, while minimizing the risk of Agency waste, abuse, or irregularities. DHS 
will maintain its current corrective action plans and continue monitoring its control environment through close collaboration 
with Agency partners and the DSS Office of Audit Services.
Department of Finance
The Department of Finance (DOF) reports that its systems of internal control continue to be effective in supporting and 
improving agency operations. DOF will continue to implement corrective action plans, including enhanced training and 
system improvements. In addition, the agency will continue to monitor its overall internal control environment through 
internal audits, follow-up of external audits, internal management reporting, and risk assessments.
Department of Health and Mental Hygiene
The Health Department continues to invest in core public health and mental hygiene work that aims to keep New Yorkers 
safe and improve chronic disease outcomes. To mitigate health care coverage loss, the Health Department is connecting 
New Yorkers to resources that enable them to realize their full health potential.
The Health Department continues to strengthen its data systems and data capabilities, enhance its internal processes 
and controls and implement corrective actions to address recommendations from internal and external assessments. By 
strengthening its internal capabilities, the Health Department will catalyze achievement of its ambitious health goals.
Department of Investigation
The Department of Investigation (DOI) reports continued oversight and monitoring of its system of internal controls, which 
it will continue to monitor through its internal audit group and the use of information technology.
<<<PAGE 530>>>
Page 518  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Department of Probation
The Department of Probation (DOP) reports oversight and activities to strengthen its internal control environment, including 
continued focus on performance management reviews and quality assurance. Additionally, DOP added electronic personnel 
records which will significantly improve efficiency, security, compliance, and records management. The Department also 
enhanced practices to strengthen its internal control of its financial operations, by implementing technological solutions, and 
additional review procedures for contracts; while hiring at key positions; including a Payroll Director and an Administrative 
Chief Officer. DOP continues to adhere to all Office of Technology and Innovation (OTI) cybersecurity procedures and policies. 
The Department will continue to monitor its internal control environment.
Department of Records and Information Services
The Department of Records and Information Services (DORIS) reports that, taken as a whole, its systems of internal controls 
were sufficient to ensure effective and efficient agency operations in Fiscal 2025. The agency operated with a deficit staff 
while continuing to implement additional security controls on the computing infrastructure such as upgrades to public 
facing web applications, development of public tools, and supporting agency-based mandates of records management 
and preservation of physical and electronic records. Further, DORIS continued deployment of agencywide cyber training. 
DORIS will continue to monitor its overall internal control environment through cyber audits, external review and internal 
assessments. This includes the need to advocate for a single procurement officer, CISO, and agency attorney.
Department of Transportation
The New York City Department of Transportation (DOT) continues to report proactive measures and oversight activities 
regarding its overall Agency operations. DOT will continue to monitor its system of internal controls through internal 
assessments, external audits, and management reporting.
Department of Parks and Recreation
The following are additional actions Parks has taken in Fiscal Year 2025 to strengthen its internal control environment and 
systems. Parks’ Internal Audit Unit has completed eight internal and external audits, reviews, and assessments. To minimize 
loss and recover revenue, Parks performs external audits of concessions, review procedures and practices related to M/WBE 
contractors and evaluate the effectiveness and delivery of the services provided by Parks’ internal operation.
Department of Sanitation
The Department of Sanitation (DSNY) continues to report that all functional areas of internal controls are sufficient and 
that it monitors its internal control environment through internal audits, selfinspections, risk assessments, and followup on 
external audit activity. DSNY also reports several enhancements implemented in Fiscal 2025, including new discovery tools 
for tracking and monitoring IT assets, strengthened user password requirements, enhanced monitoring of the Commercial 
Waste Zone program, and improved logging and ongoing status monitoring of all stationary onstreet containers installed 
as part of the City’s containerization efforts.
Department of Veterans’ Services
During Fiscal Year 2025, the Department of Veterans’ Services (DVS) continued to strengthen its internal control environment 
by reinforcing management oversight, clarifying procedures, improving documentation and recordkeeping, and enhancing 
monitoring across fiscal, administrative, human resources, procurement, and information technology functions. Where 
staffing constraints limit full segregation of duties, the Agency utilizes compensating controls, including supervisory review, 
documented approvals, reconciliations, and escalation procedures. Despite ongoing vacancies, staffing transitions, and 
budget limitations, DVS remains focused on strengthening accountability, managing operational risks, and maintaining 
effective controls to support service continuity and reduce the risk of waste, abuse, errors, and operational disruptions.
<<<PAGE 531>>>
AGENCY INTERNAL CONTROLS  |  Page 519
Department of Youth and Community Development
The Department of Youth and Community Development (DYCD) reports ongoing oversight and monitoring of its internal 
control environment, including continued efforts building upon existing systems designed to improve efficiency and enhance 
internal controls. DYCD practice, written policies, and procedures are constantly evolving, and reports continued efforts 
to develop written policies and procedures, under applicable guidance of federal, state, and local oversight. DYCD will 
continue to monitor its existing internal controls and external audit follow-ups.
Fire Department
The Fire Department (FDNY) reports continued activities with respect to oversight and enhancement of its internal control 
environment. These ongoing efforts include improvements with respect to further enhancing human resource allocation 
in the areas of audit, analyses, IT, and performance metrics. FDNY will continue to monitor its overall systems of internal 
controls through routine operations monitoring, audit activities and risk assessments.
Department of Housing Preservation and Development
The Department of Housing Preservation and Development (HPD) reports continuation of activities to strengthen its system 
of internal controls. Specifically, in 2025, HPD established a new Office of Compliance and Risk Management, led by a Chief 
Compliance Officer, whose mission is to ensure the agency adheres to all applicable laws, rules, regulations and contractual 
obligations. HPD’s written policies, and procedures are constantly evolving, and the Agency reports continued efforts to 
develop written policies and procedures with respect to HPD’s mission and adherence to federal, State, and local rules and 
regulations. HPD will continue to assess its systems of internal controls and take appropriate actions including through risk 
assessment and follow-up on external audits. 
Human Resources Administration
The Human Resources Administration (HRA) reports that its internal control environment is adequate, effective and designed 
to ensure the integrity and efficiency of operations, while minimizing the risk of Agency waste, abuse, or irregularities. HRA 
will maintain its current corrective action plans and continue monitoring its control environment through close collaboration 
with Agency partners and the DSS Office of Audit Services.
Law Department
The Law Department continued to strengthen its internal controls and cybersecurity posture through major technology 
and security initiatives. A key achievement was the successful migration of approximately 2,300 desktops from a legacy 
domain to a modern, secure environment, improving cybersecurity while enhancing the user experience with Password Self-
Service, account consolidation, and single sign-on access to cloud applications. The Department also partnered with OTI to 
complete a successful Proof of Concept for an advanced Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) solution and 
is moving forward with procurement to enhance security monitoring and incident response. In addition, the Cybersecurity 
team is collaborating with OTI to procure the Progress Flowmon network telemetry solution, improving network visibility 
and threat detection. The Department is also implementing the Forescout Security Core platform with OTI and NYC Cyber 
Command to strengthen threat detection, regulatory compliance, and operational resilience. Collectively, these initiatives 
significantly advance the Department’s cybersecurity maturity and support the secure delivery of critical legal services.
Landmarks Preservation Commission
The Landmarks Preservation Commission (LPC) reports that its internal control structure is sufficient to meet the internal 
control objectives of ongoing review and monitoring of programs and its internal control environment, which includes 
assignment of authority and responsibility and development and enforcement of policies and procedures. LPC is committed 
to continuously improving and monitoring its internal controls environment.
<<<PAGE 532>>>
Page 520  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Mayor’s Office of Criminal Justice
Fiscal 2025 represented MOCJ’s second full fiscal year operating under an independent agency code, as the Agency 
continued to build and formalize the staffing, systems, policies, and procedures necessary to support its standalone 
operations. MOCJ expanded its operational and financial capacity, including dedicated Human Resources, Payroll, Fiscal, 
Grants, Operations, and Information Technology functions. The Agency strengthened fiscal oversight through enhanced 
invoice review, monitoring of advances and grant claims, and development of standardized financial policies and procedures. 
MOCJ also strengthened audit and provider monitoring through a risk-based audit methodology and external audit 
resources, while continuing to enhance inventory controls and develop agency-specific IT policies and procedures related 
to access management, cybersecurity, incident response, and continuity planning. These efforts continued into Fiscal 2026 
as MOCJ further institutionalized its internal control environment.
New York City Emergency Management
Based on the Financial Integrity Compliance Statement for Calendar 2025 (City Comptroller’s Directive #1) and on internal 
audits, agency management reviews, and audit investigations conducted by external agencies, in the Agency’s opinion, 
New York City Emergency Management’s present system of internal controls over its principal operations is sufficient to 
meet the objective of maximizing the effectiveness and integrity of operations and reducing the vulnerability of agency 
waste, abuse, errors, or irregularities that would be material to the agency.
New York City Emergency Management reviewed the agency controls on cash receipts, imprest funds, billings and 
receivables, expenditures and payables, inventory, payroll and personnel, IT controls & procedures, single audit, licenses/
permits, violation certificates, leases, concessions, franchises, and internal audit functions and found the internal controls in 
these areas sufficient to meet internal control objectives of maximizing the effectiveness and integrity of agency operations 
and reducing the vulnerability of agency waste, abuse, errors, or irregularities.
NYCEM will continue to monitor its internal control environment through internal reviews, external audit follow-ups, and 
information technology, and will update this statement, in consonance with Section 12c(3) of the New York Charter for 
Fiscal Year 2026.
Police Department
Based on internal audits, external oversight reviews, and the Department’s annual internal control assessment conducted in 
accordance with the New York City Comptroller’s Directive 1 using the Agency-Wide, Financial Internal Controls, Information 
Technology Internal Controls, and Sub-Division assessment forms, the Department has determined that it maintains a 
comprehensive system of internal controls. Collectively, these controls provide reasonable assurance the Department 
objectives are achieved efficiently and effectively; resources are safeguard; applicable laws, regulations, policies, and 
procedures are followed; significant risks are identified and managed; and financial, operational, information technology, 
and cybersecurity activities are appropriately controlled and monitored.
The Department’s internal control framework integrates governance, risk management, financial management, information 
technology controls, and operational oversight to reduce the risk of fraud, waste, abuse, errors, and operational deficiencies 
while promoting accountability, resilience, and continuous improvement.
The Department will continue to use the Directive 1 assessment process to evaluate the effectiveness of its system of 
internal control, address identified deficiencies, and ensure controls remain responsive to operational, technological, and 
regulatory changes. Through continued collaboration among various bureaus executive management, oversight functions, 
and responsible program areas, the Department remains committed to maintaining strong and effective internal controls 
that support sound decision making, responsible governance, and continuous improvement in accordance with the New 
York City Comptroller’s Directive 1 and Section12(c)(3) of the New York City Charter for Fiscal Year 2026.
<<<PAGE 533>>>
AGENCY INTERNAL CONTROLS  |  Page 521
Office of Administrative Trials and Hearings
OATH has completed a full agency review in accordance with the principles of internal control identified in prior Directive 
1 statement results. Based on those results, OATH’s present system of internal controls over its agency operations, internet 
technology, and financial operations is sufficient to meet internal control objectives of maximizing the effectiveness and 
efficiency of OATH’s operations.
OATH reports ongoing oversight and enhancement of its systems of internal controls including, but not limited to, the 
following functional areas: operations, IT, and financial operations. In particular, the agency reports its continued effort to 
contribute to a safe and secure computing environment, including ongoing updates and addition of systems and resources, 
including enhanced security and controls in the remote environment. OATH will continue to monitor its internal control 
environment and risk assessment through internal audits and management reviews.
Office of Chief Medical Examiner
The Office of Chief Medical Examiner (OCME) reports that the present internal control structure is sufficient to meet internal 
control objectives and will continue to monitor its internal control environment through various measures, including but 
not limited to, risk self-assessment tools, internal audits, segregation of duties and information technology controls.
The Office of Technology & Innovation
The Office of Technology & Innovation (OTI) reports that the current assessment of agency internal controls supports the 
goals of identifying efficiencies, promoting integrity of agency operations, and addressing vulnerabilities including agency 
waste, abuse, errors, and irregularities. The agency continues to engage in activities that facilitate review relating to its 
internal control environment including maintaining adequate policies, practices, and protections relating to the use of 
current, new, and emerging technologies. OTI will continue to monitor its system of internal control through oversight, 
internal assessment, and external audit follow-up.
Department of Small Business Services
The New York City Department of Small Business Services (SBS) reports that its internal controls provide sufficient safeguards 
to reduce the risk of errors or irregularities that could materially affect the agency. SBS continues to strengthen internal 
approval thresholds and collaborate with NYC Cyber Command to identify system vulnerabilities and implement necessary 
measures to address any vulnerabilities identified.
Taxi and Limousine Commission
The Taxi and Limousine Commission (TLC) reports that its internal control structure, including internal and external reporting 
indicators, is sufficient to meet the internal control objectives pertaining to the prevention and detection of errors or 
irregularities that would impact the agency. The TLC is continuously looking at day-to-day operations to ensure consistent 
application of these control tools. Through data analytics, including TLC’s licensee database of record TAMIS, taxi and FHV 
trip data, and key indicators, TLC monitors and evaluates agency performance. The Finance Division of the TLC oversees 
its internal control environment by utilizing policies and procedures, reviewing external audit activity, and leveraging 
information technology.
<<<PAGE 534>>>
Page 522  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT

<<<PAGE 535>>>
AGENCY RULEMAKING ACTIONS  |  Page 523
AGENCY RULEMAKING ACTIONS FISCAL 2026
 
Agency
Total adopted/ 
amended Not in regulatory agenda* Emergency actions
DCAS 1 1 0
DCP 1 1 0
DCWP 12 9 0
DEP 4 1 0
DFTA 1 0 0
DHS 2 1 1
DOB 16 7 0
DOF 7 7 0
DOHMH 9 5 1
DOT 4 2 0
DPR 2 1 1
DSNY 6 2 0
FDNY 1 0 0
HPD 4 1 0
HRA 3 3 0
OATH 1 0 0
SBS 1 0 0
TLC 5 4 0
TOTAL 80 45 3
*During Fiscal 2026, 45 of 80 rules (56% of the rulemaking actions) were not included in agency regulatory agendas because they were not contemplated at the time or were 
adopted as emergency rules. Rules that were not included in regulatory agendas still went through the full City Administrative Procedure Act rule review process.  
 
For more information on the rulemaking process and regulatory agendas, go to NYC Rules: http://rules.cityofnewyork.us/
<<<PAGE 536>>>
Page 524  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Agency Summary Title Chapter Section
Date 
Adopted
Emergency 
Rulemaking 
(Y/N)
Included  
in FY 2026  
Regulatory 
Agenda? 
(Y/N)
DCAS
Amends rules implementing a reimbursement program for 
qualifying nonpublic schools that procure certain security 
services. 55 14 14-01 7/28/2025 No Yes
DCP
Implements the Affordable Housing Fast Track established 
by section 197-f of the New York City Charter. 62 13 13-01 through 13-06 4/20/2026 No No
DCWP
Clarifies that qualifying holders of either a general vendor 
license issued by DCWP or a mobile food vendor license 
issued by DOHMH are eligible to apply for a specialized 
vending license. 6 2 2-315 9/10/2025 No No
DCWP Amends rules relating to debt collectors. 6 2, 5 2-191, 2-193, 5-76, 5-77 2/26/2026 No Yes
DCWP
Amends the rules governing general vendors by repealing 
certain provisions and conforming requirements related to 
documentation of transactions with requirements for other 
NYC businesses. 6 2 2-307, 2-309-, 2-311 8/5/2025 No No
DCWP
Adds rules that prohibit charging consumers hidden “junk 
fees” for hotel stays. 6 5 5-15 1/22/2026 No Yes
DCWP
Increases penalty amounts for violations of the laws and 
rules applicable to Immigration Assistance Service Provid -
ers. 6 6 6-56 10/22/2025 No No
DCWP
Expands minimum pay requirements to grocery delivery 
workers, and clarifies additional requirements of third-
party food delivery services, third-party grocery delivery 
services, and other delivery services. 6 7 7-801 - 7-810 12/29/2025 No No
DCWP
Clarifies permissible bona fide service charges and all 
restaurant labor-oriented surcharges. 6 5 5-59 3/20/2026 No No
DCWP
Amends rules relating to car wash license renewal applica -
tions to simplify the license renewal process for reappli -
cants and reduce redundancy in paperwork. 6 2 2-433 3/5/2026 No No
DCWP
Streamlines implementation of Local Law 183 of 2025, 
which modifies various provisions of DCWP’s licensing 
laws. 6 1 1-02 4/2/2026 No No
DCWP
Implements Local Law 183 of 2025, which modifies various 
provisions of DCWP’s licensing law. 6 1, 2, 6 
1-02, 1-10, 2-251-2-266,  2-312, 
subch. CC (all), 6-19, 6-22,  
6-30, 6-31, 6-35, 6-68 4/2/2026 No No
DCWP
Amends the penalty schedule for violations of DCWP’s 
home improvement contractor license laws and clarifies 
home improvement contractors’ duty to retain certain 
documents. 6 2, 6 2-221, 2-223, 6-29 5/20/2026 No No
DCWP Amends rules relating to debt collectors. 6 6 6-62 6/29/2026 No Yes
DEP
Adds a new requirement that certain construction sites 
that will be in operation after hours will require a noise 
monitor. 15 28 28-101 12/22/2025 No Yes
DEP
Adopts the Water Penalty Schedule which will be removed 
from the OATH rules. 15 65 65-01 7/3/2025 No Yes
DEP Establishes an interim flood risk area map. 15 66 66-01, 66-02 9/11/2025 No No
DEP
Amends the Air Asbestos Penalty Schedule to conform to 
changes made to the Asbestos Control Program Rules. 15 53 53-02 7/3/2025 No Yes
DFTA
Amends requirements for Social Adult Day Cares, including 
changes to registration requirements and to enforcement 
procedures. 69 2 2-07, 2-21, 2-22, and 2-31 7/8/2025 No Yes
DHS
Repeals via emergency rulemaking Chapter 6 which pro -
vides criteria for placement of unsheltered homeless adults 
into low-barrier transitional housing. 31 6 6-01, 6-02 1/13/2026 No Yes
DHS
Makes permanent the repeal of the Low Barrier transisi -
tonal housing rule. 31 6 6-01, 6-02 2/12/2026 Yes No
DOB
Adds new rules regarding the installation of electric energy 
storage systems. 1
100, 
3600 101-19, 3616-07 9/26/2025 No Yes
DOB
Amends rules relating to potentially structurally compro -
mised buildings. 1 100 102-03 12/4/2025 No Yes
DOB
Amends rules regarding permitting requirements for rotat -
ing telehandlers and articulating boom cranes. 1
100, 
3300
104-09, 104-20, 104-23, 
3319-01 8/21/2025 No Yes
<<<PAGE 537>>>
AGENCY RULEMAKING ACTIONS  |  Page 525
Agency Summary Title Chapter Section
Date 
Adopted
Emergency 
Rulemaking 
(Y/N)
Included  
in FY 2026  
Regulatory 
Agenda? 
(Y/N)
DOB
Adds a new rule regarding categories of work that do not 
require a permit when performed by the Department of 
Parks and Recreation (DPR) or its contractors on land under 
DPR’s jurisdiction. 1 100 101-18 7/24/2025 No No
DOB
Amends the rule regarding periodic inspection of gas pip -
ing systems. 1 100 101-03, 103-10 12/4/2025 No Yes
DOB Adds a new section regarding ancillary dwelling units. 1 100 105-08 9/30/2025 No No
DOB
Adds an appeals process for determinations of substantial 
damage to buildings made as part of the rapid assessments 
performed following natural disasters. 1 3600 3606-01 2/19/2026 No Yes
DOB
Repeals rules related to the electrical code that are now 
addressed in Title 28 of the New York City Administrative 
Code or are obsolete. 1
34, 35, 
36 34-04, 35-02, 36-01, 36-02 10/22/2025 No Yes
DOB Adds new sections regarding refrigeration systems. 1 7000 7011-01, 7015-02, 7015-03 4/15/2026 No No
DOB
Amends the rules regarding the New York City Electrical 
Code, electrical work, and civil penalties. 1
100, 
4000
101-12, 101-14, 102-01, 104-01, 
104-26, 4000-01 11/21/2025 No Yes
DOB Amends rules regarding elevators and escalators. 1
11, 100, 
3000
11-02, 11-03, 11-04, 11-06, 
103-03, 103-19, 103-20, 103-21, 
3009-01 5/12/2026 No Yes
DOB
Amends rule regarding the entities who may perform 
inspections of gas piping systems. 1 100 101-14, 103-10 5/11/2026 No No
DOB
Amends the rules regarding fees and waivers for façade 
inspection reports, parking structure compliance reports, 
and parking structures in general. 1 100 101-03, 103-04 and 103-13 1/2/2026 No No
DOB Amends the definition of Article 7-B compliance. 29 2 46065 6/8/2026 No No
DOB
Amends the rule to provide enforcement against owners 
who have filed certification of Article 7-B compliance but 
who have failed to obtain a residential certificate of oc -
cupancy. 29 2  2-12 6/8/2026 No No
DOB
Amends the rule to add a fine for the failure to file a narra -
tive statement. 29 2 2-11.1 6/8/2026 No No 
DOF
Amends rules to comply with amendments made to the 
New York City Administrative Code and the Real Property 
Tax Law in relation to the Industrial and Commercial Abate -
ment Program. Provides criteria to determine when a park -
ing facility is associated with residential construction work 
under the Industrial and Commercial Abatement Program. 19 36
36-01, 36-02, 36-03, 36-06, 
36-15 10/6/2025 No No
DOF
Amends rules to comply with amendments made to 
the Administrative Code and the GCL in relation to the 
Relocation Assistance Credit Per Employee program. This 
rule amendment also allows DOF to determine the point 
at which applicable construction is complete under the 
Industrial and Commercial Abatement Program. 19 36, 61
36-01, 36-03, creates new 
Chapter 61 11/20/2025 No No
DOF
Amends rules to authorize State University of New York 
Downstate Health Sciences University Police Officers to 
issue parking violations in New York City and updates the 
names of certain agencies already authorized to issue park -
ing violations reflect such agency’s change in name. 19 39 39-01 5/8/2026 No No
DOF
Allows stipulations under the Stipulated Fine Program 
and the Commercial Abatement Program for time periods 
preceding the date of an agreement under either of such 
programs and clarifies polices relating to late payments 
under such programs. 19 39 39-03.1, 39-03.2 3/20/2026 No No
DOF
Amends rules to comply with amendments made to the 
Real Property Tax Law in relation to the Childcare Center 
Tax Abatement by extending the abatement to the 2032 
tax year. 19 60 60-02, 60-03 3/12/2026 No No
DOF
Amends rule in relation to the apportionment of tax lot 
parcels a portion of which were acquired by the City of 
New York through condemnation proceedings. 19 54 54-02 3/9/2026 No No
<<<PAGE 538>>>
Page 526  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Agency Summary Title Chapter Section
Date 
Adopted
Emergency 
Rulemaking 
(Y/N)
Included  
in FY 2026  
Regulatory 
Agenda? 
(Y/N)
DOF
Amends rules concerning a highway construction or 
maintenance work area speed photo violation monitoring 
program to enforce state laws against exceeding posted 
maximum speed limits in highway construction or mainte -
nance work areas. Establishes the fines and penalties for 
such violations, provides requirements for the notice of 
liability that will be sent to motorists and authorizes the 
Parking Violations Bureau (“PVB”) to adjudicate allegations 
of liability.This rule also amends the City’s rules regard-
ing the Weigh-in-Motion Violation Monitoring System to 
clarify that the PVB will only adjudicate violations occurring 
within the City of New York. 19 39 39-22, 39-25 5/14/2026 No No
DOHMH
Provides window safety requirements applicable to modern 
window types, eliminates the need for a Window Guard 
Policy and Acceptance Board, and introduces a more 
efficient process for manufacturers seeking approval of 
window fall prevention devices. 24 12
Repeal and restate Chapter 12: 
12-01, 12-02, 12-03, 12-04, 12-
05, 12-06, 12-07, 12-08, 12-09, 
12-10, 12-11, 12-12, 12-13 7/23/2025 No Yes
DOHMH
To further strengthen the confidentiality of informa -
tion: section 3.25 addresses inspection of records and 
proceedings of the Department; section 11.11 addresses 
the confidentiality of reports and records submitted to the 
Department. 24
Articles 
3 and 11 3.25, 11.11 8/21/2025 No No
DOHMH
Updates provisions regarding staff qualifications, the maxi -
mum age of a child allowed in a program, group teachers 
for younger children, and staff to child ratios. 24
Article 
47 47.01, 47.11, 47.13, 47.23 8/19/2025 Yes No
DOHMH
Updates certain requirements concerning inspections of 
food service establishments. 24 23
Appendix 23-A, Appendix 23-B, 
Appendix 23-C 10/16/2025 No Yes
DOHMH
Establishes rules for the certification required by a quali -
fied environmental professional regarding the maximum 
levels of radon and certain organic chemical vapors in a 
basement or cellar apartment in the process of obtaining a 
temporary or permanent Certificate of Occupancy pursuant 
to Local Law 126 of 2024 and Local Law 127 of 2024. 24 40
Creates new Chapter 40: 40-01, 
40-02, 40-03, 40-04, 40-05, 
40-06 10/9/2025 No No
DOHMH
Repeals and re-enacts Chapter 5 of Title 24 of the Rules of 
the City of New York to align with amendments to State 
and local laws that prohibit pet shops from selling or offer -
ing for sale dogs, cats or rabbits, and includes provisions 
governing the prohibition against the sale or offering for 
sale of guinea pigs. 24 5
5-01, 5-02, 5-03, 5-04, 5-05, 
5-06 2/17/2026 No Yes
DOHMH
Amends Article 203 of the New York City Health Code   to 
align it with recent legislative changes to Article 41 of the 
New York State Public Health Law, regarding reporting 
pregnancy loss and induced terminations of pregnancy. 24
Article 
203 203.01, 203.03, 203.05, 203.07 5/27/2026 No Yes
DOHMH
Updates provisions regarding staff qualifications, the maxi -
mum age of a child allowed in a program, group teachers 
for younger children, and staff to child ratios. 24
Article 
47 47.01, 47.11, 47.13, 47.23 11/20/2025 No No
DOHMH
Provides penalties for failure to comply with reporting in -
spections that include a Legionella sample test, adds a New 
York State laboratory certification requirement for sample 
testing, and clarifies requirements for record retention and 
production. 24 8
8-02, 8-03, 8-04, 8-05, 8-06, 
8-07, 8-08, 8-09 4/8/2026 No No
DOT
Updates various provisions of the Adopt- A-Highway 
Program. 34 2 2-21 12/29/2025 No No
DOT
Allows for the designation of areas of DOT pedestrian 
plazas and open streets for the exclusive use of private 
patrons subject to certain restrictions and the review and 
approval of DOT. 34 4 4-16 and 4-21 7/28/2025 No Yes
DOT Clarifies bus lane restrictions. 34 4 4-01 and 4-12 10/3/2025 No Yes
DOT
Adds speed restrictions for people operating bicycles with 
electric assist (“e-bike”) on NYC streets. 34 4 4-01 and 4-06 9/24/2025 No No
DPR
Adds categories of documents that the Department ac -
cepts as proof that a person with a disability is eligible for a 
reduced Recreation Center Membership fee. 56 2 2-14 6/1/2026 No Yes
<<<PAGE 539>>>
AGENCY RULEMAKING ACTIONS  |  Page 527
Agency Summary Title Chapter Section
Date 
Adopted
Emergency 
Rulemaking 
(Y/N)
Included  
in FY 2026  
Regulatory 
Agenda? 
(Y/N)
DPR
Authorizes the Department to deny permit applications for 
special events on property under the Department's jurisdic -
tion during the World Cup and America 250 observation if: 
(i) the event was not held in the 2025 calendar year; (ii) the 
event is not a demonstration; and (iii) the Commissioner 
determines, in consultation with NYPD, that the agencies 
do not have sufficient resources to ensure public safety and 
welfare at and around such event. 56 2 2-08 3/25/2026 Yes No
DSNY
Amends various rules regarding its program for the collec -
tion of commercial waste. 16 19, 20
19-103, 20-02, 20-04, 20-20, 
20-21, 20-22, 20-26, 20-27, 20-
52, 20-57, 20-62, 10/9/2025 No Yes
DSNY
Amends the rules regarding its program for the collec -
tion of commercial waste to include the implementation 
schedule for the Queens West and Lower Manhattan Com -
mercial Waste Zones. 16 20 20-02 11/25/2025 No Yes
DSNY
Amends rules relating to notice and hearing requirements 
for owners, lessors, lienholders and other interested parties 
of certain vehicles removed pursuant to the New York State 
Vehicle and Traffic Law. 16 1 1-05.2 1/23/2026 No No
DSNY
Amends rule governing the time for placing solid waste 
and recyclable materials out at the curb for collection for 
those that receive collection on Saturdays in certain Com -
munity Boards that choose to opt-in. 16 1 1-02.1 2/20/2026 No No
DSNY
Amends the rules regarding its program for the collection 
of commercial waste to include the implementation sched -
ule for the Midtown South and Staten Island Commercial 
Waste Zones, removes the Queens West implementaiton 
schedule, and create an application process for infrequent 
generators of commercial waste. 16 1, 20 1-06, 20-02 4/3/2026 No Yes
DSNY
Amends the rules regarding its program for the collec -
tion of commercial waste to include the implementation 
schedule for the Brooklyn North and Upper Manhattan 
Commercial Waste Zones. 16 20 20-02 6/11/2026 No Yes
FDNY
Revises the amount charged to patients and insurers for 
Emergency Medical Service (EMS) ambulance treatment 
and transport service. 3 84 8400-02 5/29/2026 No Yes
HPD
Allows building owners the option to use a digital sign 
instead of posting a printed sign in a common area to 
advise occupants of various requirements of the Housing 
Maintenance Code. 28
25, 46, 
56, 59
25-101, 25-201, 46-01, 56-03, 
59-01 1/2/2026 No Yes
HPD
Amends requirements for the installation and maintenance 
of smoke detecting devices, carbon monoxide detect -
ing devices and natural gas detecting devices in class A 
multiple dwellings, class B multiple dwellings and private 
dwellings. 28 12
12-01, 12-02, 12-03, 12-04, 12-
05, 12-06, 12-07, 12-08, 12-09, 
12-09.1, 12-09.2, 12-10, 12-11, 
12-12.1, 12-13, 12-14 1/2/2026 No Yes
HPD
Clarifies that when filing an application for exemption from 
the presumption of the presence of lead-based paint, indi -
vidual owners of buildings or dwelling units may file an ap -
plication either by paper or by use of HPD’s online portal, 
while corporate owners must file using the online portal. 28 11 11- 07.1, 11- 08 11/6/2025 No Yes
HPD
Amends the CityFHEPS Rules by establishing the Creating 
Real Impacts at Birth Pilot, changing the contribution for 
some households renewing with good cause, and increas -
ing the maximum reimbursement for the Unlocking Doors 
Initiative. Amends HPD Rules to increase the maximum 
rembursement for the Unlocking Doors Initiative. 28 60 60-02 8/14/2025 No No
HRA Adds documents eligible to prove identity and residency. 68 6 3, 4, and 5 7/11/2025 No No
HRA
Amends the CityFHEPS Rules by establishing the Creating 
Real Impacts at Birth Pilot, changing the contribution for 
some households renewing with good cause, and increas -
ing the maximum reimbursement for the Unlocking Door 
Initiative.
68 and 
28
10 and 
11 (of 
Title 68) 
 60 (of 
Title 28)
1,4,6, 24 in Chapter 10 
1, 3,4,7 in Chapter 11 
2 in Chapter 60 8/14/2025 No No
HRA
Increases the income eligibility standard from 145 percent 
of the federal poverty level to 150 percent. 68 12 3 10/30/2025 No No
<<<PAGE 540>>>
Page 528  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
Agency Summary Title Chapter Section
Date 
Adopted
Emergency 
Rulemaking 
(Y/N)
Included  
in FY 2026  
Regulatory 
Agenda? 
(Y/N)
OATH
Adds to the table of violations conditions eligible for Com -
munity Service in lieu of paying a civil monetary penalty if 
the respondent admits to a Specified Violation alleged in a 
summons before a hearing date, or if the Specified Viola -
tion is sustained after a hearing. 48 7 02(a) 10/29/2025 No Yes
SBS
Establishes a procedure for submitting rulemaking peti -
tions. 66 20 20-01, 20-02, and 20-03 6/9/2026 No Yes
TLC
Adjusts utilization rate formula and restricts driver lock -
outs. 35 59 59D-03, 59D-14, 59D-22 7/2/2025 No Yes
TLC
Amends rules that govern the ways in which a non-acces -
sible vehicle can be converted to a Wheelchair Accessible 
Vehicle. 35
59, 67, 
82 59C-04, 67-05.2, 82-50 9/25/2025 No No
TLC
Updates the personal injury insurance coverage require -
ments. 35
58, 59, 
82 58-13, 59A-12, 82-14 9/25/2025 No No
TLC
Requires that all taxicabs and for-hire vehicles add cyclist 
awareness decals. 35
58, 59, 
82 58-32, 59A-29, 59B-29, 82-33 9/25/2025 No No
TLC
Corrects the minimum per-mile rate for high-volume 
for-hire vehicle trips that begin in New York City and end 
outside of New York City. 35 59 59D-22 9/22/2025 No No
<<<PAGE 541>>>
MMR USER’S GUIDE  |  Page 529
MMR USER’S GUIDE 
What We Do — A summary of agency activities, facilities and resources.
Focus on Equity  — Articulates how each agency works to promote fair delivery and quality of 
services among and across groups of people and places, supporting the goals of equity, equality 
and opportunity for all New Yorkers.
Our Services and Goals  — The agency’s major areas of responsibility for delivering services to 
New Yorkers and the steps it takes to provide those services. 
How We Performed — Narrative describing how the agency has progressed in meeting its goals.
Performance Indicators  — Measures of agency performance, organized by goal, including five 
full years of data for the most recent fiscal years (or calendar year as identified with CY) wherever 
available. All CY data is reported from the previous calendar year, i.e. the value reported for Fiscal 
2024 in the data table represents Calendar 2023.
Critical Indicator Icon  — A star ( ) designates indicators that are considered key to agency 
performance. These indicators also appear on the Citywide Performance Reporting website.
Equity Indicator Icon  — A burst ( ®) designates indicators that are also reported in the Social 
Indicators and Equity Report (SIER) and the interactive EquityNYC site, and explore the economic, 
social, environmental, and physical health of New York City across race/ ethnicity, gender, location, 
and income.
Target — Desired levels of performance for the current fiscal year and the next fiscal year. Targets 
can be numeric or directional. Numeric targets can set an expected level of performance, a maximum 
level not to be exceeded, or a minimum level to be met. Directional targets are represented by up 
or down arrows. An asterisk means no numeric or directional target was set.
5yr Trend — This column shows whether or not the five years of data presented in the performance 
indicator table exhibits an upward or downward trend. An upward trend means that the end 
point of the computer-generated trend line is more than 10 percent higher than the start point. A 
downward trend means that the end point of the computer-generated trend line is more than 10 
percent lower than the start point. Neutral means that the trend is neither up nor down. NA means 
five full years of data are not available.
Desired Direction  — The desired performance trend of an indicator over time; can be used to 
assess performance comparing the current year to prior years or to the overall five-year trend.
Agency-wide Management — Indicators that apply to broad aspects of management within an 
agency rather than a single goal.
Agency Customer Service — Statistics on how well an agency provides services to its customers 
via phone, e-mail, letters and walk-in centers.
Agency Resources  — Overview of the financial and workforce resources used by an agency 
over the past five fiscal years and the planned resources available to the agency in the current and 
upcoming fiscal years.
Spending and Budget Information  — Shows the relationship, where possible, between an 
agency’s goals and its expenditures and planned resources, by budgetary unit of appropriation.
Noteworthy Changes, Additions or Deletions  — Describes changes to an agency’s data.
Additional Resources  — Provides the full Internet addresses of links to additional agency 
information and statistics, including the agency’s website.
<<<PAGE 542>>>
Page 530  |  MAYOR’S MANAGEMENT REPORT
 177 311 Customer Service Center
 237  Administration for  
Children’s Services
 467 Board of Elections*
 129 Business Integrity Commission
 113 City Commission on Human Rights
 311 City University of New York*
  93 Civilian Complaint Review Board
 259 Department for the Aging
 355 Department of Buildings
 373 Department of City Planning
 429 Department of Citywide   
   Administrative Services
 167  Department of Consumer  
and Worker Protection
  75 Department of Correction
 159 Department of Cultural Affairs
 365  Department of Design  
and Construction
 269 Department of Education
 333  Department of  
Environmental Protection
 449 Department of Finance
 191  Department of Health  
and Mental Hygiene
 249 Department of Homeless Services
 395 Department of Housing   
   Preservation and Development
 107   Department of Investigation
 147  Department of  
Parks and Recreation
  85 Department of Probation
 443 Department of Records and   
   Information Services
 137 Department of Sanitation
 319  Department of Small  
Business Services
 343 Department of Transportation
 325 Department of Veterans’ Services
 295 Department of Youth and   
   Community Development
  57 Fire Department
 215 NYC Health + Hospitals 
 225 Human Resources Administration
 421 Landmarks Preservation   
   Commission
 101 Law Department 
 385 New York City Economic   
   Development Corporation
  67 New York City  
   Emergency Management
 411 New York City Housing Authority
  45 New York City Police Department
 121  Office of Administrative  
Trials and Hearings
 205 Office of Chief Medical Examiner
 459 Office of Technology and Innovation
 305 Public Libraries*
 291 School Construction Authority
 181 Taxi and Limousine Commission
INDEX OF AGENCIES
*Non-Mayoral Agencies
<<<PAGE 543>>>
This report was produced by 
the Mayor’s Office of Operations in collaboration 
with the City agencies presented within.
CONTRIBUTORS 
Jafreicy Amparo-Michel 
Jeremy Caba 
Grace Francese 
Karina Guerra 
Winston Holding 
Mikaela Hong 
Tessa Leverone 
Joseph Lormel 
Ilana Luther 
Katie MacDougall
Marina Peebles 
Lauren Quiñones 
Caleb Seamon
<<<PAGE 544>>>
www.nyc.gov/mmr