  1 
 
Testimony from NYCHA’s Executive Vice President of Leased Housing Lakesha 
Miller 
Administration of Section 8 and Emergency Housing Voucher Program 
Committee on Public Housing 
Monday, September 29, 2025 –  1 p.m. 
250 Broadway, 8th Floor Hearing Room 1 
 
Chair Chris Banks, members of the Committee on Public Housing, other distinguished members 
of the City Council, NYCHA residents, community advocates, and members of the public: good 
afternoon. I am Lakesha Miller, NYCHA’s Executive Vice President of Leased Housing. I am 
pleased to be joined by Brian Honan, Executive Vice President of Intergovernmental Affairs, and 
other members of NYCHA’s team. Thank you for this opportunity to discuss the Authority’s 
Section 8 program, including our administration of Emergency Housing Vouchers. 
 
The Housing Choice Voucher and Emergency Housing Voucher Programs 
 
For half a century, NYCHA has helped low-income New Yorkers rent housing in the private 
market thanks to the federal Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program, also known as Section 8. 
The Section 8 rental subsidy allows families to typically pay no more than 30 percent of their 
adjusted monthly income toward rent. NYCHA pays the remaining amount to the owner of the 
home on the family’s behalf. NYCHA administers the largest Section 8 program in the country: 
We currently serve about 110,000 households –  over 223,000 residents –  who rent homes from 
approximately 27,000 participating landlords. More than half of our participants are children 
and seniors. The average household income is about $23,000, and families pay an average of 
$472 in monthly rent. Program eligibility is based on a family’s gross annual income and size of 
their household. 
 
The Emergency Housing Voucher (EHV) program is also administered by the U.S. Department 
of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). It was established four years ago to help our most 
vulnerable families and individuals gain stable and affordable housing, including people who are 
experiencing homelessness or are victims of domestic violence. NYCHA currently serves more 
than 5,400 EHV participants. 
 
 
 
 
  2 
 
Transitioning EHV Participants to the HCV Program 
 
This past March, HUD announced that it is ending the EHV program. However, HUD is 
allowing public housing authorities across the nation to transition current EHV households to 
the traditional HCV Section 8 program. NYCHA will begin transferring all of our EHV 
participants to the HCV program, because we want to support at-risk families and keep them 
stably housed. EHV participants will continue to receive the same benefits –  their rental subsidy 
will not be impacted –  and the program rules and requirements will remain the same. They will 
benefit, however, by moving from a time-limited program to one that is not time limited. 
 
To accommodate this, NYCHA must temporarily pause voucher issuance and outreach to 
applicants on the general HCV waitlist. Applicants who have not yet received a voucher will be 
returned to their original position on the waitlist –  they will not be removed from the waitlist. 
Once outreach and voucher issuance restarts, NYCHA will contact households according to their 
spot on the waitlist. There is no impact to current voucher holders.  
 
Serving Voucher Holders 
 
My colleagues and I have been working hard to prepare administratively for this transition and 
ensure there is no interruption to the vital assistance that every EHV participant receives. Our 
team also provides invaluable support to Section 8 voucher holders beyond the powerful 
foundation of a monthly rental subsidy. For instance, our Housing Navigation Unit helps 
voucher holders find housing in the private market; our inspections team makes sure that 
voucher holders are living in safe, decent housing; and we arrange for any valid reasonable 
accommodations as well as transfers to other housing authorities. The Family Self-Sufficiency 
Program helps Section 8 residents build their assets while they pursue financial independence 
through education, job training, and money management. And many of the other valuable 
academic advancement and workforce development programs offered by NYCHA’s Office of 
Resident Economic Empowerment and Sustainability are available to Section 8 voucher holders 
in addition to public housing residents.  
 
We also support the landlords who participate in the program, who likewise benefit from the 
guaranteed monthly rental subsidy payments; for example, our free online property 
management tools help landlords manage their Section 8 portfolio. 
  3 
 
A Vital Lifeline 
 
As we have reported in previous Council hearings, we continue to monitor the news coming out 
of Washington and will continue to adapt to the fiscal realities. No matter what happens, our top 
priority is providing decent, affordable housing to the families we serve, and we remain 
steadfast in pursuit of our mission. 
 
NYCHA’s work, including its administration of Section 8 vouchers, is a critical lifeline for so 
many New Yorkers. We appreciate the Council’s support as we continue to navigate the 
challenges and the changes, and we look forward to continuing our vital work together. 
 
Thank you. We are happy to answer any questions you may have. 
 