  1 
 
Testimony from the New York City Housing Authority and the NYC Department of 
Housing Preservation and Development 
Life Without Emergency Housing Vouchers: Present Options and Future Plans 
Committee on Public Housing 
Wednesday, June 17, 2026 –  10 a.m. 
250 Broadway, 8th Floor Hearing Room 2 
 
Chair Chris Banks, members of the Committee on Public Housing, other distinguished members 
of the City Council, NYCHA residents and voucher holders, community advocates, and members 
of the public: good morning. I am Lakesha Miller, NYCHA’s Executive Vice President of Leased 
Housing. I am pleased to be joined by Melissa Renwick, Senior Advisor in the Office of Leased 
Housing, and our colleagues at the NYC Department of Housing Preservation and Development 
(HPD): Adam Phillips, First Deputy Commissioner, and Meryl Block Weissman, Deputy 
Commissioner of Housing Access and Stability. 
 
Thank you for this opportunity to discuss how the Authority and HPD are handling the federal 
government’s early ending of the Emergency Housing Voucher program and working to support 
at-risk voucher holders. We know that members of the Council are as concerned as we are about 
the fate of this program –  we share this concern and we thank you for your partnership as we 
assist its participants.  
 
The Housing Choice Voucher and Emergency Housing Voucher Programs 
 
For half a century, NYCHA has helped low-income New Yorkers rent housing in the private 
market thanks to the federal Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) program, also known as Section 8. 
The Section 8 rental subsidy allows families to typically pay no more than 30 percent of their 
adjusted monthly income toward rent. NYCHA pays the remaining amount to the owner of the 
home on the family’s behalf, usually referred to as the subsidy share of the rent. NYCHA 
administers the largest Section 8 program in the country: We currently serve more than 110,000 
households –  about 222,000 residents –  who rent homes from over 26,000 participating 
landlords. More than half of our participants are children and seniors. The average household 
income is about $24,000, and families pay an average of $477 in monthly rent as their monthly 
share of the rent based on their income.  
 
Like the HCV program, the Emergency Housing Voucher (EHV) program is also administered 
by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). It was established as a 
  2 
 
separate tenant-based voucher program as part of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, to help 
our most vulnerable families and individuals gain stable and affordable housing, including 
people who were experiencing homelessness, were at risk of homelessness, or were victims of 
domestic violence. 
 
Our Plans in Response to Early Termination of Federal Funding 
 
The approximately 70,000 EHVs administered by 626 public housing authorities across the 
nation were supposed to be funded through September 2030. However, HUD announced in 
March 2025 that the federal funding will run out by the end of this year, four years early. 
Addressing this early and unexpected expiration of funds is a nationwide issue affecting all 
public housing authorities that manage EHVs. 
 
Within New York City, the administration of EHVs was split between NYCHA and HPD. NYCHA 
received over 5,700 vouchers and HPD received about 2,000. Both of our agencies have been 
working diligently to identify alternative housing options for our EHV households.  
 
Once HUD made this announcement, NYCHA began developing a plan to assist the 5,000-plus 
EHV participants. Originally, NYCHA planned to offer EHV program participants a regular 
Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher (HCV) –  but since federal funding has not kept pace with 
recent cost increases to the program, doing so would require a waiver from HUD. We requested 
the waiver in December 2025, and it was denied by HUD the following month. 
 
We now plan to provide EHV participants with alternative subsidized housing options across 
NYCHA’s portfolio, including the PACT portfolio and other project-based vacancies. To that end, 
beginning in March 2026, we reached out to our EHV households through multiple rounds and 
modes of communication to encourage them to complete a public housing application, which we 
are continuing to accept, so that we can pursue an alternative subsidized housing option and 
capture information we need to match them to housing support outside of the EHV program. To 
date, we have sent over 13,000 emails and 9,000 letters to EHV participants informing them of 
the need to apply. We have also sent correspondence to EHV landlord participants and continue 
to hold regular office hours with referring providers to provide updates on the EHV transition 
process. Completion of the public housing application is the first step towards providing 
  3 
 
households with an alternative subsidized housing option. We will continue to reach out to the 
remaining EHV participants to encourage them to do so. 
 
As of June 9, we have received approximately 3,350 responses from EHV households. We have 
begun matching these households with vacant apartments across our housing portfolio, 
contacting them via email, regular mail, and phone to inform them once the match has been 
made.  
 
In addition to placements within NYCHA’s portfolio, the City has identified $80 million in 
HOME-ARP funding to reallocate to HPD’s HOME-TBRA program to assist a portion of 
NYCHA's current EHV participants. The proposed use of funding is contingent on HUD 
approval. Although we are pleased to share with the Council this progress, we understand time 
is of the essence to ensure our EHV families continue to receive the housing support they need.  
NYCHA is working with referral partners, participating in cross-agency working groups with 
City Hall and HPD to identify every approach to assist EHV households, and also partnering 
with the Mayor’s Office of Mass Engagement to support our outreach efforts.  
 
Thank you. HPD First Deputy Commissioner Adam Phillips will now provide information on 
HPD’s response to the issue.  
 
HPD Testimony 
 
Good morning Chair Banks, members of the Public Housing Committee, and members of the 
public —  thank you for the opportunity to testify today. HPD is here to discuss two related but 
distinct EHV issues.  
 
First, we will address HPD's cohort of EHV voucher holders. There are roughly 2,000 
households whose vouchers are administered by HPD, a group completely separate from the 
NYCHA clients discussed earlier. We will provide an update on the current status of these HPD 
EHV households, the stopgap solution we are implementing to prevent homelessness, and the 
need for long-term federal solutions.  
 
Second, we will discuss NYCHA’s EHV voucher holders. There are roughly 5,700 households in 
NYCHA’s group that were discussed earlier; we will provide an update as to what HPD is doing 
  4 
 
to support the transition of a portion of these voucher holders from NYCHA EHV to HOME-
TBRA.  
 
HPD’s EHV Clients 
 
Before we discuss the transition of NYCHA’s EHV clients to HOME-TBRA, we’ll start by 
providing updates on HPD’s approximately 2,000 EHV clients. 
 
HPD received notice from HUD in March 2025 that EHV funding would be terminated nearly 
four years earlier than anticipated. HPD, NYCHA, and housing agencies across the country faced 
the same unprecedented dilemma: local governments have been asked to fill a resource gap that 
has historically been filled by the federal government. This abrupt change in policy immediately 
put the roughly 2,000 HPD EHV households at risk.  
 
As soon as we were notified that the EHV program would be ending early, we took swift action 
by engaging Congressional leaders, national organizations, and other public housing authorities 
(PHA) affected by this massive federal policy change. Many EHV households face significant 
barriers to housing stability and rely on vouchers to avoid falling into homelessness. We 
educated Congressional leaders on the significant risks and vulnerabilities that our EHV clients 
face in light of the program’s early termination, along with the urgent need to secure additional 
federal funding that would allow us to provide ongoing assistance to these households. 
 
Amid our efforts to educate our federal partners on this issue, HPD simultaneously began 
exploring possible funding alternatives through the summer and fall of 2025 to ensure we were 
prepared for a range of outcomes. At that time, Congress was weighing measures that would 
help to at least partly address the EHV funding cliff, but it remained very unclear how much 
additional assistance, if any, the federal government would provide us and other PHAs.   
 
While the federal government wavered, HPD devised a creative stopgap solution to prevent 
these families from being evicted or made homeless. By leveraging HOME Tenant-Based Rental 
Assistance funds, we could transition them from HPD EHV to a newly created HPD HOME-
TBRA program. We would have to do so by the end of September 2026, when EHV funding is 
estimated to run out. Once on HOME-TBRA, we estimate that funding will last for around two 
  5 
 
years. This is not a permanent solution —  this is a stopgap measure until more permanent 
assistance can be secured. 
 
To facilitate a smooth transition from HPD EHV to HOME-TBRA, we proactively conducted 
outreach to EHV households and property owners. We sent letters and notices to EHV 
households and their landlords informing them of an upcoming programmatic change, and in 
February 2026, HPD hosted a number of information sessions to explain the federal changes, 
answer questions, and provide guidance on the transition to HOME-TBRA. Hundreds of 
households and owners participated in those sessions and, based on their engagement, we 
published FAQs and other relevant guidance online. 
 
HPD is making every effort to seamlessly transition our 2,000 households from EHV to HOME-
TBRA. We began sending out applications in March, and as of June 1, HPD has issued 
invitations to all of the roughly 2,000 EHV participants to apply for HOME-TBRA assistance. To 
reduce the burden on households, we sent out pre-filled applications with recent household and 
income information. Our response rate has been strong —  almost 80 percent of the applications 
that were sent out prior to June have been returned. 
 
This federal change has caused a crisis that is hitting cities around the country. Some may be 
forced to take the most painful path —  where voucher holders face a lapse in coverage and lose 
their housing. HPD has been fortunate to have the resources to continue housing thousands of 
families whose EHV vouchers are being taken away prematurely. We are unique in being able to 
create a new program, albeit a temporary one, to keep these families housed, but this is not a 
sustainable solution. HOME-TBRA will not be able to cover our voucher holders indefinitely. 
There is no replacement for the federal government. They must meet their obligations to fully 
fund their programs, including Section 8. We have made that clear in our meetings with federal 
officials, and we will continue to say in no uncertain terms: the federal government must not 
abandon voucher holders and cities. They must uphold their responsibilities.  
 
Those are the steps we’re taking to keep HPD’s group of 2,000 EHV households safely and 
securely housed through HOME-TBRA. I’m happy to take questions on this later. We’ll now 
move on to our role in supporting NYCHA and a subset of their 5,700 EHV households.  
 
NYCHA’s EHV Clients 
  6 
 
HPD will be supporting a similar transition of NYCHA EHV households to HOME-TBRA, which 
will be administered by HPD.  
 
Given the time-sensitive nature of this crisis —  with funding set to run out by the end of the year 
—  we are pursuing an emergency contract via an RFP to enable the transition of families from 
NYCHA EHV to HOME-TBRA. HPD is currently reviewing RFP responses, and we are in the 
process of selecting a vendor.  
 
EHV households are New York families, and we owe it to them to do everything we can to keep 
them housed. We are making all possible efforts to ensure a seamless transition for as many 
EHV households as we can. We will continue to work across government to ensure EHV 
households can access dignified, safe, and stable housing. 
 
Thank you, and we welcome your questions.   
 