
Waiting List for Full-Term Mobile Food Vending Permits – NYC Rules
    Skip to content  
NYC.gov
|
            The Mayor's Office of Operations
311
City Record
Search all NYC.gov websites
Rules of City of New York
Text Size +/-
NYC Logo
NYC Rules Logo
                Top Menu
Proposed Rules
Hearings Calendar
Adopted Rules
Subscribe
      Get Involved
Understand the Rulemaking Process
Petition an Agency
View agency regulatory agendas
Contact us
Website Accessibility Statement
Search …
×
To change the text size on NYC.gov you can use your web browser’s settings. Most browsers include functionality to let you increase or decrease the text on a web page. For example, to increase text size using:
Chrome
In the menu to the right of the address bar, select and set Zoom level. Menu > Zoom > +
Firefox
In the View menu, select Zoom. View > Zoom > Zoom In
Internet Explorer
In the View menu, select Text Size. View > Text Size > Largest
Safari
In the View menu, select Zoom In. View > Zoom In Macintosh Shortcut: Command+
No Web Browser Endorsement
Common browsers are included in this page; mention of a specific browser does not imply endorsement or recommendation.
Waiting List for Full-Term Mobile Food Vending Permits
Rule status
:
    Adopted
Agency
: DOHMH
Effective date
: December 12, 2021
 Printable Version of Proposed Rule Text
Chapter-19A-NOI_MFV-waiting-list_8-27-21-3.pdf
 Printable Version of Adopted Rule Text
Ch.-19A-NOA_Food-Vendor-Licensing-Rules_11-12-21.pdf
Adopted rule summary
:
These rules provide for the expansion of the current mobile food vending full-term permit waiting list as required by section 33 of Local Law 18 of 2021 (“Local Law 18”). Local Law 18 expands mobile food vending. It requires the issuance of up to 445 food vending permits each year for 10 years beginning on July 1, 2022. It also creates a new “supervisory license” and mandates that food vending carts and trucks (“vending units”) that are newly permitted as of July 1, 2022 operate only when the person vending has a supervisory license. The Department plans to propose additional rules in separate rulemakings that will govern other aspects of supervisory license
issuance and to implement other parts of Local Law 18.
Comments are now closed.
Online comments
: 66
Shahidur Rahman
I have been waiting over ten years for a Food Vendor Permit so the City should issue the permits to applicants who have been waiting the longest. The City should also issue more than 445 Food Vendor Permits because it has been many years since they last issued any Food Vendor Permits.
Comment added September 9, 2021 6:11pm
Estela Gonzalez
I have also waited for over 10 years for a Food Vending Permit so I agree there should be regulations to ensure that these applicants have priority in receiving permits.
Comment added September 10, 2021 4:25pm
Mhudien Dorrani
I have been waiting for a Food Vending permit for over 13 years now. I hope the State prioritizes people who have been waiting the longest and are actively working. I agree that more permits should be issued because we have been waiting more than a decade for this.
Comment added September 10, 2021 6:17pm
Husnu Gul
I’m not in the waiting list but I want to be have permit many permits owners not living in the New York or near mostly owners they doing different jop only they do give rent for two years they just pay couple hundreds my opinion is making new regulation. 
Sincerely
HusnuGul
Comment added September 10, 2021 8:56pm
Md Nazrul Islam
I’ve been working as a mobile food vendor for over 20 years having to use my friends permit because the city does not provide new ones. It has become a more of a problem since the pandemic. It would be great if the city provided permits for those working in the field a long time or have been waiting for one for years.
Comment added September 10, 2021 9:27pm
Mohammed Shahjahan
I have been food vending for a long time and waiting for a waiting list for a long time. I agree that more permits should be made available and should be given the opportunity to make the waiting list. It can be very helpful for me and my family.
Comment added September 10, 2021 10:58pm
Reda Mansour
Hi ,
* My name is Reda I have been working as a mobile food vendor since 2008 and I don’t have a permit .
* I realised in all these places I worked at , the permit owners are not the business boss .
Most business owners do other jobs or out of the state or even out of the country and they rent their permits for others who wants to make this business . In the same time real street vendors can’t get their own permit to operate their small business .
*I guess one of the changes the city wants to do with the new permits is
THE BUSINESS OWNERS MUST BE THE PERMIT OWNERS OR AT LEAST THEY SIGN A LEGAL CONTACT OF LEASING THE PERMIT AND SHOW THE CONTACT TO THE CITY.
And finally I hope someone tells me how to apply for a permit or to be in the waiting list
Thank you for reading
Comment added September 11, 2021 8:55am
Ohsung Yang
I’m waiting for citywide permit many years. And I used permit from one of friends. This is not good for me …
Many things is comes, I hope city or state makes more permits to give whoever ready for work and pay taxes than make dreams come true…
Comment added September 11, 2021 9:13am
MUHAMMED GM KHAN
Hi,
My name is Muhammed G.M KHAN. The City of New York has been seriously affected Economically due to the impact of Covid-19. Many people look for good quality food for less price from Mobile Food Vending Carts. The number of Food cart with the City Wide Full Term Permit as of now in the City, is not enough. That’s why I think, City needs to add more Mobile Food Vendors to the City Wide Full-Term permit waiting list. Thank you for considering my comment.
Sincerely,
MUHAMMED G.M KHAN.
Comment added September 11, 2021 5:16pm
William Nogueras
I have been waiting for many years for a permit. It’s time I receive one. There are probably thousands of people waiting for a permit and the city is making a lot of money charging thousands of people $60 each for a permit they will probably never receive in their lifetime. The lottery system is a sham and the waiting list needs to be comprised of those who came first at the top and those who came last at the bottom of the list. The city needs to stop adding thousands of more  people to the list until they take care of the thousands already on the list first. It seems like the City is making a lot of money from this disaster of selling business licenses to thousands of people who the city knows will never receive the permits. Shame on the City.
Comment added September 11, 2021 10:23pm
Guluzar Cimsir
I have ben doing very long time fruit vendors every to year I am paying 15-20 thousand $ I hope city gives more permits and We can work our own permits
Comment added September 11, 2021 11:46pm
Mohammed Rahman
Hi
From now on, I won a citywide food vendor permit 14 years ago but my number is still on the waiting list, can I expect to have my permit during my lifetime? Please take a look at the current job situations in the City of New York and the issue the permit and thank you for looking at my comment.
Comment added September 12, 2021 8:36pm
Hamid El hiri
I strongly believe that adding more permits to nyc will help a lots of vendors like me improve their businesses and make their lives more easier.i have been working as a food vendor more than 15 year but never got the chance to gain a permit .that why I am asking for more permit especially for those who cary the food vendor license more than 10 years .thank you all and god bless America
Comment added September 13, 2021 2:57pm
Abdul Samad Mawjzada
Thank you for opening the forum to public comments.  I have been waiting 35 years for my permit and have yet to be given one.  I am hopeful this will give me a better chance at obtaining a permit so that I would not have to purchase one for over 15k every 2 years.  Majority of permit holders lease their permits for astronomical amounts while holding a position elsewhere.  This is not fair, it limits the growth of those actually working and prices for the permit become inflated to a point many cannot provide for their family.  I suggest making it mandatory for the permit holder to operate in the spot.  This will provide more visibility for the health department and accountability on who actually runs a designated spot.
Comment added September 13, 2021 6:22pm
Abul k Azad
My Name is Abul Kalam Azad, this proposal for expansion of Mobile Food Vending Permits will help a lot of people like myself, who have been waiting for years in the hopes of receiving a permit. However 445 is not enough as many individuals have been in the waiting list for a very long time. Many people have to pay thousands of dollars to rent Permits from people who does not use them and even get scammed. I’ve been waiting for the chance to get my own permit for 10 years now and getting a permit would be a big help.
Thank You and looking forward to receiving a Full Term Mobile Food Vending Permit!
Comment added September 14, 2021 12:09am
prodip biswas
Hi, my name is prodip biswas.I have been warking  food vendor12 years.In my own exprince lot of people who have a permit but they do not work, they do rent every two years 12 to 20 thousand dollers .But who is warking they do not have permit.My comment this permit only for who is working in physically.Would you please give them , they will really helpful.
Comment added September 14, 2021 12:48pm
Margarita Ponce
I am not on the waiting list even though i would like to be. My hopes are that with this new proposal many such as myself could have the opportunity to join the waitlist and eventually gain a permit for my own use. I have a mobile food vendors license but i have not had the chance to steadily work as a food vendor as many permit owners lease the permits at a very high price and i dont make enough income to provide for my daughter. Thank you for inviting me to comment on this proposal and i hope my thoughts are listened to, thanks!
Comment added September 14, 2021 5:13pm
Margo
There should be a separate list established for black Americans. Those who have held permits since 2017 shouldn’t get eligibility first. Most are immigrants, and it’s unfair that blacks haven’t been given priority for anything in NYC. The street vendors list has been closed for decades. We should be able to at least become food vendors in our own neighborhoods without having to compete with Halal carts.
Comment added September 16, 2021 12:52pm
Mohamed DAOUDI
Hello, my name is Mohamed Daoudi.
I love my job as a mobile food vendor. I have worked in this field for more than 13 years. I have loyal customers because I always try to do my best in cooking and selling good quality food. I like the rule of creating a supervisory license because It will help improve the quality of food services in NYC. However, I dislike my situation as a worker without a permit which prevents me to have my own business. Issuing new permits for me will be much better than expanding the current waiting list. 
Best regards 
Mohamed Daoudi
Mobile Food Vendor NYC
Comment added September 17, 2021 11:43am
Musthafa Tharuvayi
I am a food vendor since 2006. I applied for permit but never won the lotto. Permit owners rent their permit to vendors like me and they do a different job. I humbly request you to increase the number of permits and also make sure that all permit holders are doing food vending for themselves and not rent it out every 2 years for 20K. I hope the health department will prevent the permittee from renting their permits.
Comment added September 17, 2021 6:08pm
Orfelinda Ariza
I been working as a mobile food vendor over 10 years and still haven’t received my permit. I have regular loyal customers which have become my friends and they rely on me to provide service. Granting more permits to NYC vendor will help a lot of vendor’s business and theirs family.
I am asking for NYC to grant more permits to food vendor for those with  over 10 years.
Thank you
Comment added September 19, 2021 6:23pm
Yolanda Leon
Soy un vendedor ambulante y eh esperado por un permiso por mas de 11 años, ya que mi licencia me la emitieron en el año 2010, y seria de una gran ayuda de poder obtener mi permiso para poder desempeñar mi trabajo, eh cumplido con todos los mandatos de la cuidad, siendo un buen ciudadano y contribuyen, por lo que, pido de favor que sean emitidas nuevas reglas para poder obtener el permiso. 
espero que nuestra voz sea escuchada. 
bendiciones!
Comment added September 22, 2021 2:40pm
Masud rana
Hi.my name masud rana.i am working as a mobile food vendor long time.but i have no mobile food vendor permit.just i use my friend permit.so if i get the mobile food vendor permit.it is very good for me.
Comment added September 24, 2021 2:54am
Nazma Banu
My name is Nazma and I have been on the waiting list for a Food Vending permit for many years now. I am grateful that I am able to comment on the proposed rule to share my opinions. The economy of New York City has been impacted the most due to COVID and even after COVID. I am grateful for the opportunity that is provided by the NYC Department of Health and Mental Hygiene and I hope they give out these permits to people who have been waiting for so long because it would definitely help them out a lot. Thank you!
Comment added September 24, 2021 11:53am
Abderrahmane El-hardoul
I’m so grateful to participate to proposals with my opinion.I’m waiting like 14 years so hopefully the New York city of health and department give out the permit to the people waiting a long time on the lists and I’m so respectfully to nyc of health department to make rules to controlling this businesses.
Comment added September 24, 2021 7:12pm
ALL MOMEIN
My name is ALLMOMEIN. Thank you for opening forum to public comments. I am not the waitinglist .I  hope that with this new proposal many such as myself could have the opportunity to join the waitinglist and evetually gain a  own permit to runing business. I love my jod as a food vendor .I have food vendor license long time like 9 years. I wish ,I can opportunity to own a permit . Again thank you for giving me a opportunity to comments here .
Comment added September 25, 2021 4:22pm
Ramkrishna Saha
I agree with most of the comment here. I myself have been working in the food vendor for more than 10years. It will be really good if you give out new permit to those that are currently working for food vendors.
Comment added September 25, 2021 10:37pm
Su Yu Lin
I have been trying to get a full-term permit for years and so have my sisters, we have all been trying for years and have had no luck in receiving one. We hope we can finally get one this year.
Comment added September 25, 2021 11:52pm
Bendary Eltaiar
My name is Bendary Eltaiar.  I been waiting for more than 13 years for Food Vending Permit so I agree there should be regulations to ensure that these applicants have priority in receiving permits. So hopefully I get one this year.
Comment added September 26, 2021 12:59pm
Yasmin Eltaiar
Hey I am so geatfull to join ..my name is Yasmin Eltaiar I   been waiting for more than 10 years for permit I hope I get one this year. Thank you
Comment added September 26, 2021 1:02pm
Hanan khalek
My name is Hanan khalek I been waiting for more than 13 years for Food Vending Permit so I agree there should be regulations to ensure that these applicants have priority in receiving permits. So hopefully I get one this year.
Comment added September 26, 2021 1:05pm
Yasmin Eltaiar
I agree with the comments as well.  I been workin with food  for many years and been waiting for more than 10 years for a vendor food permit.  I hope I get 1 this year.
Comment added September 26, 2021 1:09pm
Harinarayan Biswas
I’ve been working as a mobile food vendor for 12 years so I don’t have any own full term permits. I have a family, my wife is unemployed, and I have one daughter. I need your opportunity for a full term permit to support my family. Every two years I rent the permit from someone for $16000. In this situation, please I am requesting my own full term permit to support my family. Thank you so much for this opportunity.
Sincerely yours, Harinarayan Biswas
Comment added September 26, 2021 6:33pm
Safi I.
I do not have a permit but I am a food vendor who has been waiting for years for an opportunity to be able to possibly receive a permit.  I know people who are forced to buy permits from others in order to keep our businesses afloat.  It is incredibly difficult.  If we can change the system up and give permits to those who have food vending businesses and who actually work at their trucks or carts, that would be appreciated.
Comment added September 26, 2021 8:12pm
Jharna Khanam
Expanding the permits for mobile food vending businesses would benefit not only the owners and prospective owners of food carts but the city as well. For over a decade, this business has been monopolized by very few people who have taken advantage of workers and halal cart owners. As others have stated, some have paid over 20,000 to operate a halal food cart. To New Yorkers, the halal food cart is not only a food cart but the only source of income. The pandemic has wreaked havoc on the service industry which includes mobile food vendors. Unlike sit-down restaurants, mobile vendors don’t have a lot of the same protections. One example would be how small businesses were able to acquire loans and grants but mobile food workers weren’t. Passing this bill will help those who’ve eagerly waited to operate a mobile vending permit and those who’ve been severely affected by the pandemic.
Comment added September 27, 2021 2:01am
Mohammad Deoun
I have been waiting for more than 10 years to get a City Wide Full-Term Mobile Food Vending Permit. Every two years I have to pay 15 to 20 thousand to rent a permit from someone which is too much for me. With the Coronavirus pandemic causing business to be even slower, it is going to be harder for me to pay to rent the permit. Getting my own permit will help me out so much.
Comment added September 27, 2021 2:46am
Lola Reinoso
Like many of my fellow food vendors here I obtained my license and tax ID 15 years ago and have since then been waiting to be issued a permit, but unfortunately because of the permit cap this hasn’t happened. Allowing for the expansion of permits will greatly benefit the many vendors who like myself depend on this line of work to sustain our families and have been waiting so long to receive the right means to work without fear.
I also agree with many of the comments above that the number of permits to be given out each year should be higher than the number proposed by the law. No vendor should have to pay thousands of dollars to rent out a temporary or full term permit. We can all work together to develop a new system that works better for all of us.
Comment added September 27, 2021 7:48am
Mario A. Bermeo
My name is Mario Bermeo, and I obtained my food vendors license over a decade ago. Unfortunately, due to the limit of vending permits I haven’t been able to obtain a permit of my own. It would be great if the city lifted the cap and provided new permits as proposed by the new law. However, I do agree with others in that the number of allotted new permits per year should be higher than the one proposed.
Comment added September 27, 2021 8:11am
David Schwartz
The New York Association of Grocery Stores, NYAGS is a coalition of local New York City grocers fighting to stay alive as special interests and big chains continue to encroach on the businesses our families have maintained for decades.  I am submitting this comment on behalf of NYAGS and in opposition to NYCDOHMH’s proposed new Chapter 19A as the city has failed to take any action whatsoever on both the enforcement unit and advisory board as required under the law.  As such, we strongly suggest that the city extend the January 1, 2022 waiting list deadline as well as the issuance of 445 permits set for July 1, 2022.
	The proposed rules would govern the expansion of the current mobile food vending full-term permit waiting list as required by Local Law 18, which requires the issuance of up to 445 food vending permits each year for 10 years beginning on July 1, 2022.  This is a clear example of the city placing the proverbial cart before the horse yet once again and to the detriment of those that the city once hailed as the heroes of COVID-19—the brick-and-mortar grocery stores and their workers.
	It’s unbelievable that the city is poised to increase licenses before taking any action whatsoever on establishing the enforcement unit, which would exclusively enforce vending laws and is required under the legislation.   The enforcement unit is the entity responsible for responding to vending complaints and violations throughout the city.  How are we moving to exponentially increase street vendor permits without there being a true enforcement mechanism in place as everyone agrees is absolutely necessary.  
	Even more disturbing, the city has failed to take any action on creating the street vendor advisory board, as required under the law, to assess the effectiveness of the enforcement unit and the roll-out of new permits, and examine and make recommendations pertaining to vending laws.  How can an advisory board make recommendations pertaining to vending laws when it doesn’t even exist yet?
	There is no dispute that NYC is losing vital supermarkets and that the city’s failure to control fruit and vegetable peddlers right next to or near existing supermarkets is part of a significant problem that aids and abets the loss of needed markets that our communities rely on. The advisory board and enforcement unit were supposed to address this. What happened? Do our union workers not matter to the city because make no doubt about it, unregulated vending hurts workers: In particular, Unite, the UFCW and the RWDSU represent restaurant and supermarket workers whose jobs are threatened by the loss of business to food carts and peddlers. These workers are protected by their union with good negotiated wage scales along with health and pension benefits-not to mention workman’s compensation coverage.  
					Sincerely,
					David Schwartz, Esq.
 Comment attachment
NYAGS-NYCDOHMH-COMMENT-SEPT-27.pdf
Comment added September 27, 2021 9:55am
Samer Ekad
Hello
I have a seasonal permit. Every year by the end of October I have to hibernate.
I have park my cart in the garage and start paying rent until the next permit cycle in April. Meanwhile I work for someone else while watching my cart sitting idle in the garage.
I wish that the temporary permits are given the priority to change to full terms.
Thank you
Comment added September 27, 2021 10:17am
Konstantinos Katehis
I have been on the permit waiting list  for 20 years and still I haven’t received a permit. I believe the department should release permits a lot sooner then that for people that have been in the mobile food vendor industry so long. I also support for people to be added to the waiting list but there should be some level of priority for people that have been waiting such a long time to obtain a permit.
Comment added September 27, 2021 10:23am
Mohammed E
I have a food vender license since 2012, I just wanted to know how to apply for the long term permit.
Comment added September 27, 2021 10:25am
Tarak Chandra Roy
Hi. my name tarak chandra roy . i am working as a mobile food vendor for 15 years. but i don’t have mobile food vendor permit. i need a full time citywide mobile food vendor permit. In past, it got harder for me to pay to rent the permit ,so getting my own permit will help me out a lot. 
Thank you!
Comment added September 27, 2021 10:34am
Monimohan Sarkar
I’m a food vender, who’s been working at food carts and trucks for the last 7 years and I’ve applied for a permit for a long time, I have not received it or any notice about it. I’m aware there’s only 445 Food Vendor Permits, I don’t think that’s enough considering the amount of people that want to open up businesses. The city should issue more Food Vendor Permits as soon as possible. I’d like to start a business of my own but have been held back due to me not being able to get a Food Vendors Permit.
Comment added September 27, 2021 10:40am
Abeda Sultana
Hello,
I’ve been a NYC Food Vendor license holder for many years now. My two kids require the financial support more than ever for their education and my spouse is currently unemployed. I’m so happy that this proposal has been brought to surface and I really hope it goes through. I agree with the others that more permits should be allotted than were proposed. This would eliminate the competitive aspect of it.
Comment added September 27, 2021 10:44am
Belen Farias
Hello my name is Belen Farias. I am a food vendor as well have been on the waiting list for over 15 years. It would help us all if the cap changed and the people on the list with much years of waiting and paying their renewals every year were granted permits for mobile food vending. Thank you
Comment added September 27, 2021 11:01am
Ashraf alsayid
I am in waiting list for permit senice  2007 and I need to know the last nu
mber   of the permit people already recived.  My number 1300 I want to know when I will receive my permit.
Comment added September 27, 2021 12:10pm
MD M RASHID
Hi . MD M RASHID I have been a nyc License food vendor since 2009 vending is my only profession to survive and maintain my four family members . I do not have any other choice besides vending .During this pandemic crisis situation , I need to continue my business to support my family. I’m seriously in need of a food vending permit.could you please be so kind as to consider my problem and necessity to provide me with a food vending permit. Thank you. MD M RASHID
Comment added September 27, 2021 12:57pm
Abderrahim BELRHALI
Hi, my name abderrahim  I have been working as mobile food vendor since 2006 and I don’t have a permit. I realised in all places I worked  the permit owners not the business owners.I guess one of the changes  the city wants to do with new permits is the business owners must be the permit owners. And finally I hope tells me how to apply for permit or to be on the waiting list   thank you for considering my comment.
Comment added September 27, 2021 1:10pm
Prairat Tongob
Hi, my name is  Prairat Tongob. After I move to New York City. My only job that I do is a vendor. I feel really appreciate That the New York city didn’t leave poor people behind and gave us opportunity to do the business by using small amounts of money and I really exited the the city will giving more permit to create more job. I been working on pushcart for 8 years and wool hard as a street vendor just to feed my family. But after COVID-19 happens. I had to stop working and try to keep my family survive. Please give me a chance cause I really need to get a permit to support my family. Thank you so much for sending me a letter to comment on proposal rules.
Thank you,
Prairat Tongob
Comment added September 27, 2021 2:08pm
Jahangir A Bhuiya
Hello,
My name is Jahangir A Bhuiya and I have been a NYC License Food Vendor since January 2010. Vending is my only profession to survive and maintain my four family members. I do not have any other choice besides vending. During this pandemic crisis situation, I need to continue my business to support my family. I am seriously in need of a food vending permit.
Could you please be so kind as to consider my problem and necessity to provide me with a food vending permit.
Thank you.
Comment added September 27, 2021 2:18pm
Afifi Afifi
I been working as a mobile food vendor over 20 years and still haven’t received my permit. I been trying all my years to get a full term permit and I did not receive any notice. My record is always been perfect and tying all those years to get permit but I did not yet. I need to get the full term permit
to support my family. I really need it  seriously.  lastly, I would like to thank you all for this great Idea and listening to our problems and I really hope it gets fix. Thank you
Comment added September 27, 2021 3:03pm
MOZHARUL CHOWHURY
I have been trying all my years to get a full-time permit waiting list and I did not receive any notice. I need my permit to support my family.
Anyways, I would like to thank you all for this great Idea’s and for listening to our problems and I really hope it gets fixed.
Thank you
Comment added September 27, 2021 3:35pm
Nilufa Begum
I am working as mobile food vendor .I don’t have permits I was renting permit from other which was  very expensive /costly for me.Please allow me to get a full time permit  If anything call me 347-9449538
Comment added September 27, 2021 4:10pm
Md Abul kalam Azad Sarker
Please kindly allow me mobile food vendor full time permit last 8 years I was rented permit from other person which was very costly please anything call me 347-944-9538
Comment added September 27, 2021 4:14pm
Victorina Gonzalez
I believe opening the waiting list and issuing the permits would greatly increase the economy in NYC by giving hard working people a chance to have their own business. I would to be added to the list to help support my family, especially during these times.
Comment added September 27, 2021 4:29pm
Francisco Gonzalez
Adding more people the list, like myself, would provide support for struggling families. By issuing permits each year, NYC is providing jobs for many!
I would love to be added on the wait list.
Comment added September 27, 2021 4:31pm
Leslie Donado
These permits on the black market go for thousands of dollars who can afford this? Please open up more permits.
Comment added September 27, 2021 5:01pm
Mohammed kabir hossain
Dear sir  i am a 20 years working food vender. Still working to support my 5 member family. Please consider me a full turm petmit. Thsnks
Comment added September 27, 2021 6:21pm
Mohammed shahjahan
Dear sir I am a food vendor since 1994 .since than still today food vending and maintaing my 4 members family.I never have a permit.please consider a full turm permit. Thanks.
Comment added September 27, 2021 6:56pm
Mostaque Ahmed
Dear sir. God bless we all, finally I have a way to talk.16 years working for others to survive with my family.please sir save my family.consider me a full turm permit.god bless we all.thanks.
Comment added September 27, 2021 7:07pm
Musleh uddin
Dear sir,I am a nyc food vendor since 1997.I do not know any other job besides vending.I used to work for someone he work for himself.I am seriously in need of a fullturm permit to support my large family.please concider me a fullturm permit. Thanks.
Comment added September 27, 2021 7:38pm
Mohammad f karim
Dear sir. I am a food vendor since 8years. During this covid time,It will be very helfull,for me and my family to survive.please give afull turm permit. Thanks.
Comment added September 27, 2021 8:22pm
Md farhad uddin
Dear sir, I have food vender license since last 14 years.I had to work for others but  it does not enough to survive with my 5 members family.could you please kind to consider a fullturm permit. Thanks.
Comment added September 27, 2021 8:49pm
Mohammad samad
I strongly believe that adding more permits to nyc will help a lots of vendors like me improve their businesses and make their lives more easier. I have been working as a food vendor more than 10 years but never got the chance to gain a permit .that why I am asking for more permit especially for those who cary the food vendor license more than 10 years .
Comment added September 27, 2021 10:05pm
Muhammad salim
Hi . Muhammad salim  I’m working 9years.my family member 4. Please permit. Thank you.
Comment added September 28, 2021 7:16am
Facebook
Tweet
Directory of City Agencies
Notify NYC
NYC Mobile Apps
Contact NYC Government
CityStore
Maps
City Employees
Stay Connected
Resident Toolkit
NYC Logo
City of New York - 2026 All Rights Reserved. NYC is a trademark and service mark of the City of New York.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
